Songs and stories tell us of how Navarr and Thorn were partners who died to create the trod network as we know it today but a great deal of poeticism has been applied to the few facts that have endured the years.

The truth however is that while Navarr and Thorn gave their lives to start putting the trods back in place it was in the far more practical sense of a devotion of years rather than them dying. We now also know that the trods were not a new idea, they had once connected the Terunael cities, perhaps just for swifter travel or there may have been more to it. Navarr and her companions however saw the potential of the connected Vallorn hearts to leech the Spring magic away.

We also do not know the precise relationship between Navarr and Thorn - they were unarguably partners in the Great Dance but it would be foolish to assume they were romantic partners (especially given how Navarr's youth is commented upon but Thorn's is not) No matter the nature of their relationship they were clearly devoted to one another and their shared cause. This is why Thorn was first to swear to the new nation and its ideals and why to this day anyone who joins the Navarr speaks an oath in his name.

The Binding of Thorns now varies between individuals, oaths are deeply personal, but one factor remains the same in each and every binding - an unwavering promise to fight the Vallorn. We now know that the eight Vallorn sites must be connected and we must coordinate strikes against it as an Empire, one of Wisdom and not of greed.