---
IgnoreLinking: False
Tags: ['Archetype', 'Religion', 'The-League']
Title: Bishop
draft: False
revision_date: 2022-05-14 17:22:35+00:00
revision_id: 90248
---

## Introduction
[[Bishops]] represent the clergy and religious leaders of [[League]] society. They have embraced the truth and power of [[The Way]] and the [[Imperial Synod]]. Each has a church and is responsible for the spiritual guidance of a [[Congregation|congregation]] of lay citizens, as well as playing an active part in [[The Synod|the Synod]].
## Religious Heritage
Religious heritage in [[The League|the League]] is both derived from, and a rebellion against, the more inflexible and stuffier approaches of [[Highguard]]'s [[Chapters|chapters]] and wayfarers. Whilst still respecting, and recognising, the importance and reality of Virtue, the bishops of [[The League]] understand the importance and reality of power too.
There are many routes an individual may take to become a [[Bishop|bishop]]. For some, they simply follow in the footsteps of their parents with their congregations learning to respect their [[Wisdom|wisdom]], much as they have done for generations before. Other more entrepreneurial bishops have invested in a location, perhaps having identified a holy place or relic, and used their charisma and connections to draw a [[Congregation|congregation]] to that location. Some such bishops are even given support by a [[Guild|guild]].
Regardless of how the status is attained, it is fiercely and jealously guarded. bishops understand that perception is everything, and so many ensure to present themselves in the finest manner, with civility and style - though of some bishops it has been said that their compliments can sometimes cut more deeply than a [[Bravo|bravo]]'s blade. In the sea of the imperial faith, [[The Bishop|the bishop]] is a shark.
If you give me six lines written by the hand of the most honest of folk,I [[Will|will]] find something in them which [[Will|will]] hang them.
## Creating a [[Bishop|bishop]]
Bishops are powerful and influential figures who are responsible for the spiritual leadership of congregations of League citizens. The best way to play a [[Bishop|bishop]] is to select a religious [[Downtime|downtime]] [[Resource|resource]] which [[Will|will]] represent a church, tomb, [[Pilgrimage|pilgrimage]] site or other holy location wherein [[The Bishop|the bishop]] can administer guidance and direction to the laity. These congregations can be in any part of [[The League|the League]], even if [[The Bishop|the bishop]] elects to travel extensively leaving [[Day|day]]-to-day matters to junior clerics.
There is no actual requirement for a [[Bishop|bishop]] to know any of the [[Liao|liao]] ceremonies, as such [[Rituals|rituals]] are not actually required to give sound counsel. Some bishops elect to sell the [[Liao|liao]] allocated to their holy site so that they may use the funds to further the [[Worth|worth]] of the faith in more practical ways. Others find that the [[Liao|liao]] ceremonies are an important part of exerting social pressure.
Bishops may operate alone or as part of a larger group. Within a group of bishops, one or more is usually nominated as their leader or spokesperson given the title of archbishop. Such [[Groups|groups]] may also include junior priests, who know [[Liao|liao]] ceremonies but have no [[Congregation|congregation]], as well as other League folk who have dedicated their lives to [[The Way]].
A [[Bishop]] may choose to graciously grant their patronage to a [[Guild|guild]] or a [[Free Company|free company]], though never as a common member or [[Bravo|bravo]]. Doing so is usually a calculated act. Such a patronage can enhance the status and reputation of both the group and [[The Bishop|the bishop]], provided that the [[Conduct|conduct]] of each reflects well on the other.
## Playing a bishop
For a bishop of [[The League|the League]], perception and reputation are important concerns. The clergy of [[The League|the League]] are no less competitive than any [[Bravo|bravo]] or [[Merchant Prince|merchant prince]], but success is measured by profile and influence. A celebrated bishop is far more likely to be asked to [[Conduct|conduct]] a state funeral or be consulted by senators. Yet, for all that they are a prominent part of a Faith that extols individual Virtue, bishops of the League are perhaps more likely than most to take a pragmatic approach to the Virtues, accepting that - sometimes - the ends justifies the means. 
It is possible to play a less-competitive bishop with no interest in politics, machinations and status. Such bishops are important to the more politically-minded and may be courted for the support and resources they can provide. After all, a bishop who commands the attention of other bishops, whether courting or courted, must indeed be [[A force to be reckoned with|a force to be reckoned with]].
For inspiration of figures who have walked the tightrope of religious credibility with political acumen and ruthlessness, some good examples are Jeremy Irons' portrayal of Rodrigo Borgia, various interpretations of [[Cardinal]] Richelieu from The Three Musketeers, and Abbot Hugo from the Robin of Sherwood TV series.