---
IgnoreLinking: False
Title: The League military concerns
aliases: ['The_League_military_concerns']
draft: False
revision_date: 2023-05-26 22:44:06+00:00
revision_id: 101070
tags: ['The-League']
---

## Overview
Most citizens of [[The League|the League]] who seek a military life look instead to the [[Free Companies|free companies]] and it is here that the nation excels. The free companies are the mercenary units for which [[The League|the League]] is famous. Threats are considered downright rude, but most [[Guilds|guilds]] still employ mercenaries; only a fool relies on the rules alone to protect their interests. After all, not everyone ''in'' the [[League]] is ''of'' [[The League|the League]]. 
Joining a [[Free Company|free company]] is a serious undertaking. A [[Free Company|free company]] is like a [[Guild|guild]]; members are expected to show the same [[Loyalty|loyalty]], and that [[Loyalty|loyalty]] [[Will|will]] be tested on the field of battle. Although free companies are renowned for their discipline on [[The Battlefield|the battlefield]], they are equally notorious for their riotous behaviour on the streets. Not for nothing are their members called [[Bravos|bravos]], fighting by [[Day|day]] and drinking through the [[Night|night]]. When two free companies are housed in the same city then rivalry easily spills over into violence. Brawls and duels abound and running [[Battles|battles]] in the streets are not unknown. The leaders of the free companies turn a blind eye as long as the bills for the damage do not mount too high, and as long as civilians are left out of the conflict. The Imperial authorities turn a blind eye provided nobody is reported killed. 
If [[The League|the League]] lack military numbers, they strive to make up for it with competent generals. League tacticians are a byword for brutal brilliance; shrewd people prepared to contemplate the unthinkable to achieve victory. [[General]] Anke Carsten von [[Temeschwar]] infamously stated “''I am an artist, [[The Battlefield|the battlefield]] is my canvas''” when called before [[The Synod|the Synod]] to justify the cruel tactics she employed against the [[Barbarians|barbarians]]. 
Crossbows are very much in favour with [[The League|the League]] – anyone from wealthy merchants to street bravos might tote one of these exquisitely made devices and the free companies have taken them up with great enthusiasm. While they may lack the range of a Marcher longbow, they are just as effective at short range. Crossbows are easy to produce and simple to master. Once the crossbow is cocked and ready, physical strength is irrelevant. There are not many bow users in the League, and it is considered more of a "hunting weapon" than a weapon of [[War|war]].
## [[Imperial armies|Imperial Armies]]
At the height of [[The Empire|the Empire]]'s power the League was able to field two armies, but when the [[Territory|territory]] of [[Holberg]] fell under the control of barbarians, the need for soldiers to defend the city absorbed what military strength they could spare. When the League reclaimed [[Holberg]] they rebuilt the [[Towerjacks]] army and now once again two League banners fly over the battlefields of [[The Empire|the Empire]]. It is a constant frustration for many Merchant Princes that they cannot match [[The Military|the military]] strength of nations like [[The Marches|the Marches]] or [[Dawn]]. However, the structure of Imperial forces does not appeal to many citizens of the League and attempts to find additional volunteers have come to nought.
The League fields two  Imperial armies; the ''[[Wolves of War]]'' and the ''[[Towerjacks]]''.
### The [[Wolves of War]]
The Wolves of [[War]] are an extremely versatile fighting force. Many of the soldiers in this army are Bravos from the roughest parts of [[Temeschwar]] and [[Tassato]], supported by talented engineers from [[Holberg]] and Sarvosian scouts. They are also adept at working with mercenary troops, taking advantage of the great wealth of the League to employ specialist units to help them on campaign.
In [[Autumn]] 378YE, the Dawnish [[Archmage of Autumn]], Maurice de Gauvain, took clever advantage of a rare conjunction to gather the [[Ilium]] needed to place a permanent [[Bound by Common Cause]] [[Enchantment]] on the [[Wolves of War]]. This [[Enchantment|enchantment]] greatly enhances the ability of the army to work with Imperial military units. It coincidentally means that the [[General]] of the Wolves of [[War]] is subject to a powerful magical influence, but it remains to be seen how far-reaching this effect [[Will|will]] be.
The first League [[General]] leads the [[Wolves of War]] army, and is appointed (or re-appointed) at the Autumn Equinox each year.
### The [[Towerjacks]]
The second army of the League, the [[Towerjacks]], is expert in siege warfare. They were disbanded in 346YE after the fall of [[Holberg]], when its officers and soldiers dedicated themselves to the defence of their home territory. A core of the army still existed and had honed their [[Skills|skills]] through a generation of holding the walls by the time the city was [[Liberated|liberated]].  With the lifting of the siege, the officers of the [[Towerjacks]]  let it be known that they were prepared to return to active duty, provided they could be returned to full strength. A motion before [[The Senate|the Senate]] during the [[Summer]] Solstice 379YE gained permission to reinstate the Towerjacks. Their resupply and recruitment were completed in [[Winter]] 379YE and a new [[General]] was appointed.
The second League [[General]] leads the Towerjacks army, and is appointed (or re-appointed) at the Winter Solstice each year.
We, the Mercenaries of The League, exist to serve the leaders of [[The Empire|the Empire]], and bring [[Glory|glory]] to our nation. Through patronage, we arm ourselves. Through leadership, we gather in companies, and perfect our fighting styles. Through experience, we chart a bloody course across [[The Battlefield|the battlefield]], marching not as soldiers, but as [[Heroes|heroes]]. Each nation is a crucible in which champions are forged. The apothecaries and artisans of many nations give up their wares gladly, but The League would never ask such a thing of its citizens. We value their work, and pay them a fair price for it. In turn, we ask for an honest wage, to strengthen our forces, and bring honour to our patrons. 
While the civilians of the League [[Will|will]] lay down their quills and raise arms against the barbarians, the Free Companies lead a life of perpetual warfare, travelling as one, fighting as one, and willing to die as one, if [[The Empire|the Empire]] demands it. It is this life that our wages pay for, an endless round of marching, drilling and [[Combat|combat]]. 
Our patrons - the noble princes of the League, and the wise Generals of [[The Empire|the Empire]] - need only tell us where and when, and we [[Muster|muster]], armed and armoured according to their wishes, and equipped for the enemies that face us. When battle comes, we stand united, fearless against our foes, strengthened by the knowledge that one soldier can show [[Weakness|weakness]] and [[Confusion|confusion]], but a [[Free Company]] [[Will|will]] hold the line, and march to victory.
The League Links