---
IgnoreLinking: False
Title: The League magical traditions
aliases: ['The_League_magical_traditions']
draft: False
revision_date: 2020-06-16 15:21:10+00:00
revision_id: 79791
tags: ['Magic', 'The-League']
---

Theatre is a vital part of [[League]] society, and theatrical [[Groups|groups]] called [[Troupes|troupes]] are common. From the most bombastic performances in lavish theatre houses to the simplest productions performed in the streets themselves – the citizens love spectacle and little is more spectacular than League theatre. In part this is due to the common use of [[Magic|magic]] by a [[Troupe|troupe]]’s performers. Some of this [[Magic|magic]] is simple stage tricks, but skilled performers use can weave quite literally enchanting performances. Quite how many members of a [[Troupe|troupe]] can perform formal [[Magic|magic]] is a closely kept secret. A [[Troupe|troupe]] demands every bit as much [[Loyalty|loyalty]] as any [[Guild|guild]] and discretion about the abilities of the members is considered just another part of the rules. Whether producing a performance of Scillio’s "''The Fallen Herald''" or attempting a dangerous [[Ritual|ritual]] by command of a [[Merchant Prince]], every member of a [[Troupe|troupe]] plays a part. 
To [[The League|the League]], [[Magic|magic]] is a commodity like any other. Although [[Urizen]] lays claim to the secrets of grand power and treat it with great dignity, in [[The League|the League]] it is the money of a wealthy patron that pays for that dignity. As such, the show a [[Troupe|troupe]] puts on is as important to their reputation as the results they produce. The performers weave knots in time as well as space, drawing influences from the past to spread their patron’s influence in the future. They must make a show of invoking symbols of [[Ambition|ambition]], [[Loyalty|loyalty]] and [[Prosperity|prosperity]], as much because a merchant prince enjoys watching a bravura performance as because of their importance to the ritual.
Most troupes wear masks when they perform ritual [[Magic|magic]], and guard these masks carefully. The notion of taking on a character for the purposes of ritual is well established. When one knots the ties on a mask in order to perform [[Enchantment|enchantment]], one does not simply wear a piece of cloth or leather or paper, one is wearing the combined weight of all the stories told about that character - and all the stories that can yet be told. The most famous masks in [[The League|the League]] are in in the Armetto Theatre house, in [[Sarvos]]. These masks are old and, in some cases, nothing special to look at, but they are exceptionally potent in the hands of a skilled performer. 
There is also a belief that these masks not only [[Empower|empower]] the ritual, but also ensure that any malign influences or backlash [[Will|will]] fall on the mask, rather than the wearer because they conceal the identity of the [[Magician|magician]]. As a consequence, some masks are believed literally to be cursed items - items that cannot be destroyed because to do so is to cause the weight of the malign energies contained within to be released. Several stories - and indeed plays - tell of cursed masks and the trickery that causes their wickedness to be released on the undeserving. (see also masks in [[Hearth magic|Hearth Magic]]).
Rivalry between troupes is famously intense, and long-standing feuds are commonplace. Troupes compete for the patronage of the most powerful [[Guilds|guilds]], and performers have even been murdered for changing troupe or giving a bad performance. Open violence is rare, but public duels between performers are an important part of advertising and promoting a troupe's plays - especially when an opening [[Night|night]] is approaching. Such matches always draw a fine crowd as performers are expected to retort and riposte while they [[Fight|fight]]; the eventual victor [[Will|will]] be the one who most entertains the crowd the most rather than the one who strikes the winning blow.
## [[Mountebanks]]
The troupes of [[The League|the League]] would like to believe that there is no other tradition of magic in the cities, but this is far from true. There is an underclass of street-[[Mage|mage]] known as mountebanks - a derogatory term first used by the troupes that many of these street mages have claimed for themselves as a badge of [[Pride|pride]]. Their rough magic is more immediate and improvised, rarely for the benefit of a patron, and often performed on street corners. Many mountebanks are part conjurer, part con-artist, with a widely-held reputation for being crooks and scoundrels - or so the troupes would have you believe. While not all mountebanks are confidence tricksters, enough of them are that their entire profession is viewed with some suspicion.
Many mountebanks combine an understanding of incantations with a little ritual magic, and supplement their understanding with trinkets and even potions and elixirs. They tread a fine line between entertainer and criminal, and those who step over the line are in danger of the serious repercussions that face anyone who cannot follow the rules in League society.
The archetypal example of [[The Mountebank|the mountebank]] con is the [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shell_game shell game], playing on the greed and hopefulness of their victims to trick them into making a wager they cannot win.
[[The League]] Links