---
IgnoreLinking: False
Title: The Blade
aliases: ['The_Blade']
draft: False
revision_date: 2017-04-02 13:37:35+00:00
revision_id: 50688
tags: ['Dramaturgy', 'The-League']
---

[[The Blade|The blade]] is one of the instruments or [[Dramaturgy]]. As such it often represents the method used in a magical [[Ritual|ritual]]. A [[Troupe|troupe]] [[Will|will]] often have a specific prop that they use for [[The Blade|the blade]] whenever it appears, and may in time come to treat the inanimate object a little like a member of the cast.
Appearance: A real weapon or a [[Painted|painted]] wooden prop, [[The Blade|the Blade]] represents conflict, [[War|war]] and suffering. Some very theatrical [[Troupes|troupes]] construct hinged or [[Spring|spring]]-loaded props which can transform rapidly from knife to sword and back again as it is handed back and forth. Some especially self-satisfied troupes have taken to replacing [[The Blade|the blade]] with a letter, pamphlet or quill pen. This is more common in [[Sarvos]] than anywhere else and is sometimes called ''The Sarvosan Conceit'' when it is observed by troupes from other cities.
Meanings: [[The Blade|The blade]] deals with conflict, [[War|war]], suffering and [[Combat|combat]] but it also deals with healing and removal of obstacles. It has an element of sacrifice in it, and is a key to [[Rituals|rituals]] such as [[Sorin]]'s Rite of Agony that specifically involve a sacrifice,
When carried by [[The Captain]], it represents individual [[Combat|combat]], and powers that enhance [[Combat skills|combat skills]] such as The Swan's Cruel Wing. With [[The Prince]] it represents armies and nations at [[War|war]], and so has a role in [[Rituals|rituals]] such as [[Clarity of the Master Strategist]]. With [[The Bishop]], it is often used to represent truth or righteousness, but also things that deal with alliances - [[Ambassadorial Gatekeeper]] for example,especially when performed on members of a [[Banner|banner]] with a strong connection to [[The Way|the Way]]. In the hands of a [[Mountebank]] it is military subterfuge, hidden knives and the like and may be used in a ritual such as [[Shroud of Mist and Shadow]]. In hands of [[The Doctor]] it becomes the Scalpel and is associated with the process of cutting away something bad to allow necessary and painful healing; it might be used with [[Black Iron Blade]], [[Renewed Strength of the New Day]] or [[Vitality of Rushing Water]] with equal facility. When carried by [[The Witch]] it is called the Aetheme, and signifies magical authority and mastery over foreign spirits - such as those evoked with [[Clarion Call of Ivory and Dust]] or [[Conclave of Trees and Shadow]].