---
IgnoreLinking: False
Title: Dawn leadership
aliases: ['Dawn_leadership']
draft: False
revision_date: 2024-01-04 19:44:52+00:00
revision_id: 106820
tags: ['Dawn']
---

## Overview
[[Dawn]] is dominated by powerful [[Noble Houses|noble houses]]. The houses manage their great estates and raise soldiers to [[Fight|fight]] for [[The Empire|the Empire]]. Membership of a [[Noble House]] is achieved by passing the house's Test of Mettle, although a degree of status is assumed by those sons and daughters who have been raised in a house (who are technically yeofolk until they pass their test).
Each house sets its own test and only the behaviour of those who have passed the test reflects on the house. As a result a house must keep the tests difficult to maintain its reputation. Those houses that make the tests too easy face the very real risk of having no [[Children|children]] placed with them by other nobles - no [[Dawn]] parent would want to place their child with a house that is tarnished by mediocrity.
Houses are led by an [[Earl]] who is selected from among the members of that house. Earls usually dedicate themselves to the advancement of their [[Noble House|noble house]]. It is the responsibility of the [[Earl]] to set tests such as the Test of Mettle and the Test of Ardour. The accomplishments of a House reflect directly on its [[Earl]], an acknowledgement of the role that the [[Earl]] plays in ensuring that every member of the house is given the support they need to triumph. Likewise the bearing with which an [[Earl]] comports themselves reflects on the whole house, so Earls are expected to take their responsibilities seriously, to [[Conduct|conduct]] themselves with gravitas and to expect and receive respect from their fellow Dawnish. 
Some houses also choose to appoint an heir-presumptive, an individual who the house agrees [[Will|will]] take over the Earlship if the current Earl is no longer able to perform their duties. The heir-presumptive is often a staunch ally of the Earl, someone chosen to bolster their control of the house. But the role can just as easily serve the opposite function, some nobles choose an heir-presumptive to signal the limitation of the Earl's power and what might happen if they overstretch their authority.
Only nobles become Senators or Generals, although [[Imperial Law|Imperial law]] prevents this being mandatory. While it is theoretically possible for a yeofolk to be chosen for high office, a yeofolk who showed the qualities that made them eligible for such a position would almost certainly be approached by Dawnish noble houses keen to attract a rising star whose [[Glory]] would reflect well on them.
The political battlefield of [[The Senate|the Senate]] is one that is difficult for many nobles to master. Dawnish senators are often supported by an [[Advocate]] - a yeofolk who makes a study of the [[Senate]] and the [[History|history]] of [[The Empire|the Empire]]. While the nobles make impassioned speeches on the Senate floor, it is their retainers who help them prepare those speeches and work hard to ensure that the political realities of Imperial life do not scupper the nobles' plans.
[[The Synod]] and [[The Conclave|the Conclave]], by contrast, are open to both yeofolk and noble alike, although again a yeofolk who rose to prominence in one of these structures would likely attract a great deal of attention from the Dawnish nobility.
By contrast, it is considered demeaning for nobles to involve themselves in the [[Business|business]] of [[The Bourse|the Bourse]]. Making money is simply not considered glorious in [[Dawn]], it is the business of yeofolk and not something that nobles should be worrying about. A noble who spent too much time in the [[Bourse]] might cause others to question their commitment to [[Glory|glory]] and to the furtherance of their house's goals.
## Leading a [[Territory|territory]]
Like every Imperial nation, [[Dawn]] holds elections to choose which Dawnish citizen should become the [[Senator|senator]] for a territory. But where many other nations handle their elections quickly and with relatively little fuss, in [[Dawn]] they are complex and enduring reflecting the constant striving for [[Glory|glory]] that underpins Dawnish culture. Crucially only those who have become nobles may partake directly in the Dawnish elections although there are other ways that others can influence the outcome.
The mechanism for choosing a [[Senator|senator]] has changed recently, reflecting a growing need, recognized by the Dawnish [[Egregores|egregores]], to ensure that the emphasis on [[Glory|glory]] includes more than just martial triumph. 
The senators for each Imperial territory are re-elected at specific equinoxes and solstices during the year. The [[Senator|senator]] for [[Weirwater]] is elected at the [[Summer]] solstice, the [[Senator|senator]] for [[Semmerholm]] is elected at the [[Autumn]] equinox, and the [[Senator|senator]] for [[Astolat]] is elected at the [[Winter]] solstice.
Creating a favour does not require any time or resources on the part of your character - but you must provide a suitable phys-rep. This can be as simple as a strip of cloth or a posy of flowers, it could be as complex and detailed as a embroidered piece of silk, or a piece of jewellery. In most cases it [[Will|will]] be small enough that your character can carry it with them - and easily pass it to another character if you choose.
If you let Profound Decisions know that your character has passed their Test of Mettle then we [[Will|will]] put a ribbon with your character's name on it in your pack that that you can attach to the phys-rep you are using. The favour [[Will|will]] expire after a year. You [[Will|will]] be eligible for a new favour ribbon at the event where the senator for your territory is being decided or the first event after that that you attend.
### Favour
Favours are an important part of Dawnish culture. A common favour is a strip of cloth which has been embroidered or [[Painted|painted]] by the donor, often with something that symbolises the noble or their house, but they can take any form. To partake in the new elections, the Dawnish [[Egregores|egregores]] have asked every noble to produce a special favour to be marked with [[Magic|magic]] to demonstrate its provenance.
A noble may give their favour to anyone at any point in the year, dispensing their patronage at the point where the recipient has done enough to win their support. Most recipients are likely to be Dawnish though that is not a legal requirement. Anyone can hold a favour, or pass it along, though only a Dawnish citizen may stand for election. The expectation is that a noble will give their favour to any citizen who has sufficiently impressed them whether that be by a demonstration of their [[Glory|glory]], an expression of love, or other essentially Dawnish trait. 
The election will take place immediately after the grand tourney so that nobles can also choose to make their favour contingent on martial prowess in line with previous Dawnish traditions. To support this, the [[Egregores|egregores]] will allow any character with a favour to add their favour to the tourney [[Banner|banner]]. The banner will be awarded to the winner of the tourney - along with any favours attached to it.
The [[Magic|magic]] of the favour will last for a single year. At the point where an election is held, each prospective candidate will present themselves to the nation. They let the [[Egregore|egregore]] know the number of favours they bear. The candidate who claims the support of the most favours must turn them all over to the egregore who will count them and check they are all valid. If their victory is confirmed then they will be declared the senator for the territory. Their favours will then be taken away to create a roll of honour listing the names of all who supported them. Those who were not victorious may keep their favours and continue to use them in any subsequent election - at least until they expire.
Each noble will be entitled to create a new favour at the summit where their senatorial election is decided. So the favour of a noble whose [[Resource|resource]] is located in [[Weirwater]] will receive a new favour at the Summer Solstice. Nobles who live outside one of the three territories currently assigned to Dawn will be eligible to create a new favour each [[Spring]] Equinox.
### The Tourney
Each election will take place immediately after the grand seasonal tourney is complete and the prize has been presented. Any Dawnish citizen who wishes to be considered for the title of senator must present themselves at the end of the tourney after the [[Knight-protector|knight-protector]] is crowned. Any nobility who wish to influence the election but who have retained their favour until this point, must do so now. They may either give their favour to one of the candidates or to one of their supporters - perhaps someone whose bravery and skill in the tourney caught their eye - or for any other reason.
Once all the candidates are known to the [[Egregores|egregores]], they will clear the Glory Square. Each candidate is allowed a single companion, a [[Troubadour|troubadour]] or similar who will announce them. Once the square is sealed, no further favours may be exchanged. The egregore will then invite each candidate in turn to send forth their [[Troubadour|troubadour]] or similar to state their candidate's name and [[Lineage|lineage]] to the assembled crowd.
Once the [[Troubadours|troubadours]] have spoken, each candidate will let the egregore know how many favours they have accumulated. The egregore will then declare the candidate with the most favours to be the one chosen by the nobility of Dawn to represent the territory. The egregore and their helpers will collect all the favours from the winning candidate; they will be taken away so that they can be checked and the details recorded for the roll of honour, before they are returned to the senator with the identifying [[Hearth magic|hearth magic]] removed from them.
A handful of nobles have asked the [[Egregores|egregores]] if it would be possible to grant their favour directly to the winner of the tourney. The egregores have confirmed that is indeed possible and suggested that the best way to do this is for a noble to give their favour to the egregore to be placed with the banner for that tourney. Whichever individual is declared the victor in the tourney may claim all the favours attached to the banner and employ them exactly as they would any other favour they had been given.
### Extraordinary Elections
If a senator dies, is revoked or abdicates their title, then the position will automatically come due for selection by extraordinary election at the next summit. In those circumstances, any noble who supported the former candidate - whose favour is recorded against their name in the roll of honour - may create a new favour. The [[Magic|magic]] of the new favour will end just before the title comes due for re-election, rather than lasting a year.
### Incumbent
The current senators of Dawn are listed below - see the individual territory pages for a full election history for each position.
* [[Astolat]] - #lst:Archive:All_Election_Results|Senator_for_Astolat_occupant
* [[Semmerholm]] - #lst:Archive:All_Election_Results|Senator_for_Semmerholm_occupant
* [[Weirwater]] - #lst:Archive:All_Election_Results|Senator_for_Weirwater_occupant
* [[The Barrens]] - #lst:Archive:All_Election_Results|Senator_for_the_Barrens_occupant
## Dawnish houses
A list of well-known noble houses who have attended [[Anvil]] in recent years can be found on the [[Dawn groups]] page.
Dawn Links