---
IgnoreLinking: False
Tags: ['Archetype', 'Dawn']
Title: Knightly order
aliases: ['Knightly_order']
draft: False
revision_date: 2024-01-04 22:05:49+00:00
revision_id: 106839
---

## Overview
Knights are found throughout Dawnish society, both as a part of [[Noble Houses|noble houses]] and as members of knightly orders. These [[Groups|groups]] are so dedicated to the pursuit of [[Glory|glory]] that they separate themselves from the politics of the earls and the noble houses. If a [[Noble House|noble house]] is thought of as a "[[Family|family]]", then a [[Knightly order|knightly order]] is closer to a private club. The members band together, committed to a common approach and united by a shared vision, to risk their lives in pursuit of [[Glory|glory]]. 
Some orders demand complex rules of behaviour from their members, or have a spiritual element - they strive to uphold one or more of the virtues, or swear to pursue and protect true love. Many dedicate themselves to a grand quest, such as conquering a new [[Territory|territory]] for [[Dawn]] or destroying a hated [[Eternal|eternal]]. They are usually open about these ambitions - not only do they attract like minded knights to seek membership but by publicly working toward their goals they accrue additional [[Glory]].
As with the noble houses, members of a [[Knightly order|knightly order]] use unique heraldry to identify their affiliation. Most often the order's heraldry is less important to the knight than their personal heraldry; it is often worn as a badge or on a medallion rather than on the shield or surcote.
## Formation
All that is required to form a [[Knightly order|knightly order]] is for a group of knights to come together and declare themselves as such, ideally with a chapterhouse, fortress, or manor to serve as their base of operations.  Traditionally, the prestige of a [[Knightly order|knightly order]] waxes and wanes based entirely on the renown of its members; another reason for the knights to strive to attain ever more glorious achievements. 
Unsurprisingly, the core of any [[Knightly order|knightly order]] is a group of knights. A knightly order made up entirely of questing knights for example is very different to one composed of [[Knights-errant|knights-errant]]. Some knightly orders combine noble and yeofolk knights, often with the questing knights serving as mentors and guides to the ambitious knights-errant; such orders are sometimes called ''aspirant orders''. In a few cases, a knightly order [[Will|will]] be made up of [[War|war]] witches - using their [[Magic|magic]], rather than force of arms, to pursue [[Glory|glory]] .
Almost all knightly orders have an oath that the members swear when they join that announces the particular approach to [[Glory|glory]] they share. The oath is usually public knowledge, helping to define the nature of the order in the eyes of the rest of [[Dawn]].
## Choosing a leader
One thing that sets a knightly order apart from a [[Noble House|noble house]] is that they are not lead by an [[Earl]], which means the order has no ability to organise tests. Almost all knightly orders [[Pride|pride]] themselves on this distinction. They still tend to have a leader however, whose main role is to determine who can or cannot join the knightly order. While some orders practice a blackball system, even they [[Will|will]] tend to have a recognised leader who represents the order in [[Day|day]]-to-day affairs.
There's no standard title for the leader of a knightly order, nor any standard way for them to be chosen. The most common title is ''knight-marshal'' but it is considered to have a slightly archaic ring to it. Some orders hold a contest to select their leader, often a tourney or a battle of [[Magic|magic]], but contests of skill or even learning are not unknown. A few have complex rules about determining how the knight-marshal may be challenged and replaced but others embrace their leader until they die - ideally while engaged in some gloriously unfeasible endeavour.
## Creating a Knightly Order
Most of the members of your knightly order [[Will|will]] be knights of one type or another - [[Archetypes|archetypes]] such as [[Questing knight]], [[Knight-errant]], and [[War|war]] [[Witch|witch]] are the most common. As with any group [[Archetype|archetype]], however, there are roles for many different type of character. Most knightly orders aspire to have a [[Troubadour]] among their number - someone who can provide spiritual advice and support but most importantly record the glorious deeds the knights undertake, and spread their legend across [[Dawn]] and the rest of [[The Empire|the Empire]].
Any Dawnish group is likely to include roles for yeofolk. Men-at-arms and squires commonly support the knights, whether they are nobles or yeofolk themselves. Because Dawnish nobles are largely disinterested in money, even an order of knights-errant are likely to have a [[Seneschal|seneschal]] or [[Retainer|retainer]] whose job is to keep the knights fed and provide for their needs and avoid them having to waste time with such squalid endeavours.
## Forming a Knightly Order in Play
You can form a knightly order in play at any time. The best way is to create a new knightly order - to lay down some guiding quest or glorious objective that your order [[Will|will]] be committed to and to commit yourself utterly to that goal. Knightly orders are usually short-lived - the best of them burn brightly, they don't fade away. By creating something new, you can make establishing and promoting your knightly order a character goal that everyone in the order can strive towards. Make sure you don't pick something too easy for your goals, so that pursuing it becomes a thing of legend that takes years rather than being over too quickly.
Despite the generally short-lived nature of a knightly order, you do have the option to create one that has been existed for some time. You'll still need to think about the goal and approach that your order [[Will|will]] be pushing for, but you'll also need to give some thought as to why it has been around for so long without achieving glorious success or glorious failure.
In either case if you choose a home for your order, you're free to make up some simple details for this. One of the nobles in your order might own a small castle, or maybe your order is based out of a manor house, a chapel or even a tavern somewhere! Your home is usually less important for questing knights, since your focus should be to achieve your goals as gloriously as possible, rather than thinking about lands or temporal power.
## Additional reading
* [[Knight-errant]]
* [[Questing knight]]
* [[War]] witch