---
IgnoreLinking: False
Tags: ['Rituals', 'Auras', 'Night-Ritual']
Title: Chamber of Delights
aliases: ['Chamber_of_Delights']
draft: False
revision_date: 2023-11-29 13:04:40+00:00
revision_id: 106229
---

## Rules
Season|Night|8
### Performing the [[Ritual]]
Casting time|2 Area enchant
[[Enchantment|enchantment]] This is also a location [[Aura|aura]].
### Effects
This ritual enchants an area with a potent [[Aura|aura]]. Anyone who enters the area becomes aware of (and subject to) the aura, and experiences a powerful [[Roleplaying effect]]: they feel relaxed, happy and perhaps even a little drugged; pressing concerns are easy to set aside for later. They feel an urge to indulge themselves, and luxuriate in pleasurable sensations. It is easy to fall asleep in this area, and anyone who does is likely to experience vivid, pleasant dreams and awaken refreshed. 
__TOC__
Area Aura|Chamber of Delights|being relaxed and happy|relaxed roleplayingSeason Duration
## Description
This ritual creates an [[Enchanted|enchanted]] aura that evokes feelings of relaxation and restful indulgence, similar to those that surround some eternals of the [[Night]] [[Realm|realm]]. It is commonly used to prepare areas that encourage relaxation and recreation. Some [[Freeborn]] parador, for example, have a location specifically set aside for invoking this ritual, where visitors relax, eat, drink and chat languidly. Many [[Naga]] find these [[Enchanted|enchanted]] areas especially soothing, and enjoy holding long indulgent feasts in them, or simply engaging in lazy gossip while sipping cool drinks.
The [[Chamber of Delights]] can be made permanent with [[Ilium|ilium]] but this is almost always done inside a building rather than in a tent or other fragile structure - simply because it is too easy to cause the [[Enchantment|enchantment]] to collapse by shifting the boundaries of the aura. Magicians theorize that an [[Ilium|ilium]]-infused enchantment such as this would be especially durable. They speculate that in addition to the usual resistance to replacing such an enchantment with an enchantment not also infused with ilium, removing or replacing the aura with the [[Consecration]] ceremony would only work if the priests involved used true [[Liao|liao]]. The reticence of [[The Synod|the Synod]] to "waste" [[True liao|true liao]] on magical experimentation has meant that there is no definitive proof either way.
Like [[Solace of Chimes]] and [[Chamber of Pallas]], ''[[The Chamber]] of Delights'' creates an aura similar to, but distinct from, the kind of aura a priest can create with the ceremony of [[Consecration|consecration]]. Most obviously, it is not created using [[Liao]] (and has no spiritual component that might be examined with the [[Insight]] ceremony). Rather than being drawn from the Labyrinth or the spiritual strength of humanity, it is a construct made using [[Magic|magic]]. The strength of the aura does not vary; it is not possible to create a durable aura through the use of this ritual. Some [[Magician|magician]] speculate that it might be possible to make a similar ritual of a higher magnitude that would be more resistant to removal - in the same way that priests can cooperate and invest additional liao to create a stronger consecration.
There are some priests who are quite sceptical of this ritual. They claim that it somehow invokes a false virtue, or even a malign spiritual presence. It encourages inaction rather than action, self-indulgence rather than Virtue. Some magicians have even used auras such as these to support spurious claims that the ceremonies used by priests of [[The Way|the Way]] are ''just [[Magic|magic]]''. Worse, they have even been used to found small cults based around the idolatrous worship of eternals. Scholars of magic, especially those associated with the [[Sevenfold Path]] have demonstrated repeatedly that while consecrations and enchantments such as these share some similarities, they are ''different'' on a profound level. In practice, most priests tend to treat ''[[The Chamber]] of Delight'' much as they would any other enchantment - it influences the minds of mortals, through magic. It may be a useful tool, or a test for the faithful, but the context in which it is encountered is the most important thing. Indeed, some priests dedicated to [[Prosperity]] encourage the use of [[The Chamber of Delights|the Chamber of Delights]] - after all, it is virtuous to celebrate and enjoy the deserved rewards of hard work and this enchantment encourages everyone to enjoy themselves (provided, of course, there has been some hard work to celebrate ...)
The ritual is known and used by people across the world by many different names. Only in the [[Sumaah Republic]] and [[Iron Confederacy]] is its use monitored or proscribed. Imperial magicians speculate that it should be possible to create similar enchantments in the [[Summer]], [[Spring]], and even [[Winter]] [[Realms|realms]] although no such [[Rituals|rituals]] are currently part of [[Imperial lore]].
## Common Elements
This ritual is designed to create feelings of relaxation and pleasure. It is often performed with relaxing [[Music|music]], especially the sound of stringed instruments. Soothing incense is often burnt, and where possible the area is dressed in deep, luxurious colours and decorated with patterns designed to help relax the mind (mandalas, depictions of the [[Runes|runes]] of Night and so on). Decorations and beautiful ornaments are often scattered around the area, and both cushions and thick carpets are common.  Invocations are almost invariably performed in quiet voices, and may involve participants sitting or lounging rather than standing.
The [[Rune|rune]] [[Zorech]] is often evoked with this ritual.