---
IgnoreLinking: False
Tags: ['Winter-Ritual', 'Rituals', 'Mass-Effect']
Title: Howling Despite of the Yawning Maw
aliases: ['Howling_Despite_of_the_Yawning_Maw']
draft: False
revision_date: 2023-12-29 18:05:19+00:00
revision_id: 106679
---

## Rules
Season|Winter|50
### Performing the [[Ritual]]
Casting time|2 Target Character The target character must be a contributor participating in the performance of the ritual.
[[Enchantment|enchantment]]
### Effects
This [[Enchantment|enchantment]] allows the target to call MASS [[Weakness|WEAKNESS]] once during the duration. The character must be able to cast spells to make this call - it explicitly [[Will|will]] not work if they are wearing armour. 
While under the effect of the [[Enchantment|enchantment]], the target experiences a [[Roleplaying effect]]: the target finds themselves urged towards savagery. They feel an urge to mercilessly slaughter anyone who threatens them, their friends, or their [[Family|family]]. They find it easy to suggest courses of actions that others might view as atrocious, if those actions would destroy or weaken their enemies. The longer the [[Enchantment|enchantment]] remains without being unleashed, the more bloodthirsty they become. When they do use the power granted by the ritual, they feel an almost irresistible urge to voice a savage howl, yell, or bellow. This effect is particularly pronounced among [[Characters|characters]] of the [[Draughir]] [[Lineage]], and has in the past prompted physical violence between high [[Lineage|lineage]] winterborn and anyone they perceived as threatening "their" people.
[[Day]] Duration The power of the ritual can be invoked only ''once'' during this time.
### Additional Targets
The ritual can affect additional [[Characters|characters]] from the same [[Coven|coven]]. Each additional character increases the magnitude of the spell by 30. Additional characters must be present throughout, and each must contribute to the performance of the ritual.
### Option
Ritual Substitution|beggar's lye|measures
Mass Ref-effect
## Description
This [[Battlefield Ritual|battlefield ritual]] allows a powerful magical attack to be unleashed against a group of enemies, weakening them and leaving them incapable of casting spells, using [[Enchanted|enchanted]] items or performing heroic deeds. 
For many [[Winter]] ritualists, the ''[[Howling Despite of the Yawning Maw]]'' is superior to both the [[Weakness]] spell and [[Rituals|rituals]] such as [[Hungry Grasp of Despair]] because it spreads the [[Curse|curse]] of [[Weakness|weakness]] among many enemies at the same time. Used wisely, this ritual can neutralise an elite band (such as an orc chieftain and their bodyguards), or cut-off an entire enemy coven from their [[Magic|magic]]. It is at its most useful when combined with a keen awareness of enemy capabilities. 
The late [[Enchanter|enchanter]] Bauris d'Werwell made good use of the ritual when facing the [[Jotun]] on the western front. His knights would identify and taunt [[Groups|groups]] of [[Barbarian|barbarian]] Ulvenwar, luring them into a charge against their apparently exposed position. At the last moment, the [[Earl]] would unleash the power of this ritual, depriving them on their strength and making it impossible for them to smash through the Dawnish defences. The startled orcs could then be quickly slaughtered. Eventually, the [[Jotun]] refused to charge any group they saw in the black-and-silver cockatrice heraldry of House d'Werwell at all - which the canny strategists of the house quickly found new ways to exploit. Sadly the majority of the [[Noble House]] died fighting the [[Thule]] alongside [[Empress Britta]] during the fall of [[Skarsind]].
[[Howling Despite of the Yawning Maw]] also sees some use when fighting supernatural threats. It can prevent a mob of husks from rising again when they are struck down, for example. While it is an expensive option, the [[Curse|curse]] the ritual unleashes can weaken a [[Magician|magician]], magical healer, or creature with dangerous powers lurking within a group of other opponents - the ability to weaken everyone within range should not be overlooked. There are very few other ways for magicians to exert their power beyond the reach of their implement, after all.
When the power of this ritual is unleashed, the ritualist doing so often feels an overpowering urge to unleash a screaming howl. This has led to some concern that the ritual in some way draws on the power of [[Agramant]], and [[Calls|calls]] for it to be subject to [[Interdiction|interdiction]], given [[Agramant]] has the enmity of [[The Conclave|the Conclave]]. Extensive research by Torval of Highwatch was presented to the [[Conclave]] in [[Autumn]] 348YE that demonstrated that the ritual is ''not'' associated with [[Agramant]] directly, despite the boons that creature claimed to be able to offer to enhance its performance.
In [[The Marches]] this ritual is sometimes called ''Topple the Lofty Pedestals'', while in [[The Brass Coast]] it is referred to as ''Calling the Black Wind''.
## Common Elements
When performing this ritual, the coven often invokes forces of despair, fear and hunger. Oppressive [[Music|music]] or thundering rhythms that begin fast and become slower and slower, symbolic of [[The Way|the way]] power ebbs from those affected by this [[Curse|curse]], are common; so are frenzied dances that reach a climax with the performers collapsing as if from exhaustion. The slow ringing of bells often accompanies this ritual.
The target of the ritual is always a contributor, and the ritual should reflect that. Some ritualists, especially in [[Varushka]] use the target's implement as a focus, passing it from magician to magician, whispering curses and dire promises of doom to the tool before returning it to the ultimate target. Others might prepare an infusion of [[Bladeroot]] which is drunk by the magicians, and causes them to experience momentary symptoms of nausea, [[Weakness|weakness]], and uncertainty.
Other elements might include the [[Runes|runes]] [[Kyrop]] or [[Naeve]], or a dramaturgical scene in which [[The Captain]] succumbs to despair and frailty. For an astronomancer, the ritual has a clear correspondence with [[The Drowned Man]] [[Constellation|constellation]]. Some Dawnish - and even a few Highborn magicians - consider evoking the spirit of the malign manticore.
If the coven intends to draw additional power through the use of beggar's lye, it is not uncommon to dilute the lye in water and use it to paint designs on the skin of the target. If the concentration is high enough, the caustic solution [[Will|will]] cause slightly painful minor burns that fade over the course of an hour or so - tracing [[Runes|runes]] in this way is especially appropriate. Some covens take the risky decision to prepare an extremely dilute solution, often in a central cauldron, which the target drinks a little of at the climax. Any [[Physick|physick]] would counsel against consuming what amounts to a poisonous acid, but the belief is that the [[Magic|magic]] of the ritual protects the subject from the worst effects of consuming dilute beggar's lye.