---
revision_id: 103801
revision_date: 2023-07-25T10:56:51Z
Tags:
- Summer-Ritual
- Rituals
- Auras
draft: false
Title: Leonine Pavilion
aliases:
- Leonine_Pavilion
---
## Rules
Season|Summer|20
### Performing the Ritual
Casting time|2 Area enchant
[[Enchantment]] This is also a [[Aura#Location Aura|location aura]].
### Effects
This ritual enchants an area with a potent aura. 
Anyone who enters the area becomes aware of (and subject to) the aura, and experiences a powerful [[Roleplaying effect]]: you are strongly reminded of your accomplishments, and the deeds you are most proud of. You feel an urge to boast about, discuss, and celebrate those accomplishments.
The area can provide a source of supernatural strength to anyone in the area, allowing them to overcome an unwanted [[Roleplaying effect]]. This ability requires the character to roleplay talking about, reflecting on, and celebrating their accomplishments and the accomplishments of anyone else in the vicinity. They must also  remain in the area. If they leave, the unwanted roleplaying effect returns assuming it has any duration left.
A character who engages in at least fifteen minutes of boasting and carousing in this location aura recovers all lost [[Heroic skills#Hero|hero points]]. 
There is no effect if the character is on a battlefield or in a similar stressful environment. If the character makes or suffers an attack during this time, or spends any hero points, then the fifteen minutes is interrupted and must be begun again from scratch. This magic is not sufficient to allow recovery of hero points to any character who is under an effect that prevents recovery of hero points overnight such as [[Dreamscape of the Endless Hunt]].
This [[Enchantment|enchantment]] is a location aura, similar to that created using the consecration ceremony. A location can only be under one aura at a time. This ritual will replace any standard location aura (including those created by similar [[Rituals|rituals]]), but is not powerful enough to remove a location aura with a [[Aura#Strong Auras|strength]] higher than one. Likewise, any consecration can replace (or remove) this [[Enchantment|enchantment]]. A detect magic spell performed in the area determines the realm and magnitude of the effect. The insight skill will not detect any spiritual element to the enchantment. 
Season Duration
## Description
Inspired by conversations with heralds of [[Eleonaris]], Sagua I’Ezmara commissioned the ritual text from Aquillian Ankarien. It was then codified by the [[Master of Ice and Darkness#The Icy Crag of the Eternal Sun|Icy Crag of the Eternal Sun]] under the direction of the [[Master of Ice and Darkness]], Ceinwen of the Eternal Family. Work was completed shortly before the Summer Solstice 383YE. The ritual was originally entitled “Swim the Eternal Sea”; the Master of Ice and Darkness chose to rename it during the codification. It was added to [[Formulaic ritual#Imperial Lore and the Ritual List|Imperial lore]] in Spring 384YE, following a [[Imperial lore|declaration]] by the [[The Brass Coast|Freeborn]] Sagua i Ezmara.
The ritual reminds individuals in the enchanted area of the deeds and accomplishments they are most proud of, and encourages them to celebrate them. They are gently urged to ruminate on their successes, and share them with others. Those who partake in the magical aura, especially those with the changeling lineage, feel the urge to speak about and celebrate not only their own accomplishments, but those of other people sharing the area with them.
Comparisons have been drawn with some of the virtuous auras created through liao ceremonies, specifically those created by priests dedicated to the virtue of [[Pride]]. Yet from observation and experience, the aura is substantially different to those familiar from centuries of liao use. The tenor of the magical aura is much more about considering and sharing accomplishments and deeds one feels proud of.
Leon of the White Oak, a [[Magister]] closely involved in the initial codification of the ritual raised concerns that the Summer magic used to create the aura encouraged individuals to “boast” about their deeds and accomplishments. A fellow magical theorist at the college, the [[Changeling]] Eduard de Cassilon, countered that while that was the case the “boasting” was not “vain boasting” but rather a legitimate urge to share ones pride at real accomplishments and deeds. Sadly, Leon was unable to reconcile his concern that the ritual might lead to unvirtuous behaviour among those exposed to it and regretfully quit the project before the completion of the codification.
The ritual is quite similar in design and application to the more well-known [[Rituals|rituals]] [[Chamber of Delights]], [[Solace of Chimes]], and [[Chamber of Pallas]]. The aura woven by the magic is distinctive because it has a much more “boisterous” flavour than those three [[Rituals|rituals]]. Rather than quiet conversation, those exposed to the aura are inspired to engage in carousing or celebratory behaviour that can become quite raucous – particularly with people already prone to such things.
As with the other rituals, magicians involved in the codification theorize that were the [[Leonine Pavilion]] infused with [[Ilium]], the aura would be especially [[Aura#Strong Auras|strong]]. They speculate that in addition to the usual resistance to replacing such an enchantment with an enchantment not also infused with [[Ilium|ilium]], removing or replacing the aura with the consecration would require true liao. As always, the reticence of the Synod to "waste" true liao on magical experimentation in this means there is still no definitive proof either way.
## Performing the Ritual
This appreciation of the individual as a part of larger success and taking pride in your own actions without diminishing the actions of others is presented as a potential aspect to performing this ritual. This might include each of the ritualists adding a personal symbol to the decoration of the chamber they are enchanting; singing a song with themes of heroic or glorious action; or each sharing a short tale of personal accomplishment while passing a goblet or cup between them.
The ritual lends itself well to [[Dramaturgy]] – [[The Captain]] and [[The Bishop]] are both resonant personae albeit in very different ways, especially in conjunction with [[The Cup]], [[The Blade]], or [[The Battlefield]] – while there are many reasons for a person to feel proud of their deeds and accomplishments martial imagery seems especially resonant with the creation of the [[Leonine Pavilion]].
The rune Feresh has undisputed resonance with the ritual and banners depicting the rune may be hung in the and displayed prominently. 
Unsurprisingly, [[Totem magic#Goetia|goetic]] magicians would evoke [[Eleonaris]] or [[Barien]] during the casting of this ritual. [[Totem magic#Theurgy|Theurgists]] might evoke the names of any paragon or exemplar they feel a personal connection to – there are few inspirational virtuous figures who have not performed great deeds or accomplishments. A magician who works with [[Totem magic#Spirit Animals|spirit animals]] might use depictions of gryphons, unicorns, or lions in their performance as these beasts resonate strongly both with the Summer realm
and the idea of pride and celebration.
Regardless, there are several notes from magicians that the ideal location to perform the ritual is a place with plenty of seats and tables – not so much because it supports the magic but because it is simply easier to go with the urges created by the aura when in a comfortable surrounding.