---
IgnoreLinking: False
Tags: ['Summer-Ritual', 'Rituals']
Title: Noble Mien of the Hawk Lords
aliases: ['Noble_Mien_of_the_Hawk_Lords']
draft: False
revision_date: 2023-12-29 18:01:03+00:00
revision_id: 106628
---

## Rules
Season|Summer|20
### Performing the [[Ritual]]
Casting time|2 Target Character The target character must possess the [[Summer]] Lore skill.
[[Enchantment|enchantment]] 
### Effects
The target gains one effective rank of the Summer lore skill for purposes of performing [[Rituals|rituals]], subject to the normal rules for effective skill. 
They gain two effective ranks (total) to the appropriate ritual lore if they are contributing to the performance of ''any'' ritual of magnitude 100 or greater. The ritual does not need to be part of Summer lore, but the normal rules for effective skill still apply. The additional power ''cannot'' be used if another effect such as a Chain of [[Aesh]] is used to reduce the magnitude of a ritual below 100.
While the [[Enchantment|enchantment]] lasts the target experiences a [[Roleplaying effect]]: You feel supremely confident in your abilities; it is hard to imagine that you could fail at something you set your mind to. When others disrespect you, ignore your opinions, or suggest you might fail,  it is hard for you to remain calm.
If the target is a [[Changeling]], the roleplaying effect is especially pronounced. A [[Changeling|changeling]] may also choose to temporarily add to or increase physical trappings of their [[Lineage|lineage]]. These changes are temporary and do not last more than a few hours after the enchantment ends.
Season Duration
### Additional Targets
This ritual can affect additional [[Characters|characters]] from the same [[Coven|coven]]. Each additional character increases the magnitude by 15. Additional [[Characters|characters]] must be present throughout.
## Description
This potent Enchantment strengthens the recipient's ability to wield [[Summer magic]]. It may share a little power with a novice, or allow a master of Summer lore to draw on even more power. Those experiencing the enchantment are able to take a much deeper draught from the bottomless well of Summer [[Magic|magic]], and wield that power with greater confidence and to greater effect.
It further strengthens any [[Magician|magician]] that contributes to the performance of an ambitious, powerful ritual. The enchantment enhances the [[Will|will]] of the magician so that they can personally draw on deeper reserves of whatever [[Realm|realm]] is used to weave their magical effect. Those who experience the [[Magic|magic]] of the ritual speak of a constant awareness of a source of great power that they can simply reach out and claim whenever they want - but doing so is not always an easy feat. Occasionally the magic resists, an they must exert every iota of their new strength and confidence to bend it to their [[Will|will]] lest it twist out of their control. Some recipients describe it as a flood, or tide, that seems to carry them along in its wake - only by exerting their will can they master the magic and make it perform as they wish it to. Changeling magicians in particular find this enchantment appealing, and over time it can result in the influence of their blood exerting a more pronounced effect on their personalities.
The ritual has a number of variant names. These named generally make some reference to the changeling [[Lineage]]; it may be ''Crown of the Majestic Stag'', ''Lore of the [[Spiral]] Dance'', ''Wrathful Visage of the Ladies of Summer'', ''Heartbreaking Song of the Swan Maidens'' or ''Wise Eyes of the Twilight Councillor''. For some time, Imperial magicians considered this ritual to be something of an anomaly - unlike [[Fire in the Blood]] or [[Sorin]]'s Rite of Agony it did not appear to draw magical power through the auspices of a particular [[Eternal]] of the [[Summer Realm|Summer realm]]. During [[Autumn]] 381YE, as part of an ongoing study of these [[Rituals|rituals]] by scholars at the Lyceum, the question of how the ritual worked was finally answered. Originally codified under the name ''Lore of the Golden [[Spiral]]'' by the [[Earl]] of house de Casillon in pre-Imperial [[Dawn]], it represents an agreement with the [[Eternal|eternal]] [[Meraud]] - an eternal well known for his enthusiasm for especially powerful magic. The ritual's common name was transcribed as ''Mien of the Hawk Lords'' by the early [[Conclave|conclave]] following a complex disagreement between magicians of [[Dawn]] and [[Urizen]], who (unsurprisingly) favoured the name more evocative of their high peaks.
The same group of scholars that uncovered the origin of this ritual have found several references to a similar enchantment called ''[[Fire from the Heavens]]'' that allows a magician to wield even more [[Summer magic]]. The references are quite old, dating from shortly after the foundation of the Lyceum. They contain an account of a Coven called Star of Evening ,associated with Willstone in [[Redoubt]], who made use of this ritual to increase their ability [[Empower|empower]] [[Imperial armies]] during the Consolidation. Drawing power from [[Meraud]], it apparently allowed the magicians to tap into "the power of the stars" - it has been suggested this might represent an ability to consume [[Ilium]] in place of large amounts of crystal mana.  [[Historical research]] commissioned at the [[Winter]] Solstice 381YE by Ioseph of Phoenix Reach, the [[Minister of Historical Research]] delved deep into the nature of this ritual; the resulting text is easily available.
There is also some documentation surrounding a ritual associated with either [[Adamant]] or [[Cathan Canae]] (it is not clear from the context which eternal is involved). Called [[Throne]] of Stone in the document, it is allegedly practiced by the [[Thule]] and the magician-princes of [[Jarm]]. The scroll claims that the ritual empowered an entire coven with mastery of Summer magic, but required the construction of a large stone structure to "contain" the power. The story has previously been dismissed as nothing more than fanciful imagining, but recent discoveries by Imperial scouts in [[Hordalant]] of structures that appear to be "embassies" to certain Summer eternals have led to the story being reviewed with new interest.
## Common Elements
The ritual often involves symbols of [[Pride]] and majesty. [[Music]] and dance are often included in this ritual, especially slow stately [[Music|music]] that inspires feelings of majesty and confidence. A target may be crowned in some literal or metaphorical way, or given a mantle of feathers as part of the casting, The [[Rune|rune]] [[Feresh]] is often marked on the target, often with pigment to which a Changeling has added blood or tears. A blood [[Mage|mage]] will almost always perform this ritual with the use of changeling blood.