---
IgnoreLinking: False
Tags: ['Winter-Ritual', 'Rituals']
Title: Retreat to the White Caves
aliases: ['Retreat_to_the_White_Caves']
draft: False
revision_date: 2021-03-01 16:39:22+00:00
revision_id: 82564
---

## Rules
Season|Winter|23
### Performing the [[Ritual]]
Casting time|2 The area to be [[Enchanted|enchanted]] with this ward must be clearly apparent to those within, and without, its bounds.
[[Enchantment|enchantment]] 
### Effects
This ritual targets a building or well defined, walled area. It must be performed inside that location.
At the completion, the area is warded against heralds of the eternals. Such a creature approaching the boundary is always aware that the area is warded; if it enters it is immediately weakened for as long as it remains in the area. Even creatures that are larger-than-human-sized [[Will|will]] be weakened by the power of the ward if they enter it.
The ward creates a powerful [[Roleplaying effect|roleplaying effect]]: mortals within the warded area feel cold and miserable, unless they are actively warming themselves. Those who sleep within the ward experience nightmares of being trapped within a cave whilst an unknown lurking evil sits brooding outside, waiting for the cold or hunger to drive them from safety. These effects are particularly pronounced for those with strong [[Lineage]].
When used inside a building, the ward protects the entire structure. Any openings in the structure - doors and windows especially - must be clearly marked with [[Runes|runes]] or symbols of warding. The building must be a reasonably permanent structure, preferably of wood or stone; the ritual [[Will|will]] not work on a tent or other entirely similar structure.
Warding an Area|Heralds
Season Duration
When the fierce Vard, with their iron swords, came to Mieriada, the frightened Ushkans hid themselves deep in the [[Painted]] Caves and waited for the cold outside to drive the Vard away.
## Description
This ritual was presented to the [[Imperial Conclave]] in the [[Winter]] of 378YE by Simargl, called the Empty One of the Circle of Zulgan-Tash, the Varushkan [[Dean of the Lyceum]]. It was entered into [[Imperial lore]] shortly before Simargl surrendered his title as Dean. It is an extrapolation of the principles involved in common warding [[Rituals|rituals]], specifically [[There Is No Welcome Here]]. It enchants an area to make it hostile to heralds, eternals and other beings from the [[Realms|realms]].
[[Winter magic]] is, at its heart, a grim undertaking even when it can be seen as beneficial; Varushkan [[Cabalists|cabalists]] know that [[Magic|magic]] always comes with a price. In this case, those who shelter within the warded area feel cold almost all the time, unless they are actively warming themselves. Conversation quickly falters, and it is easy for a brooding silence to settle on all those within the warded area. Worse, those who sleep within the ward experience terrible dreams of being trapped within a cave whilst an unknown lurking evil sits brooding outside, waiting for the cold or the hunger or the madness that comes from long periods of being cooped up in an enclosed space to drive them from safety.
Some of the Highborn involved in codifying this ritual remarked that the dream cave appeared to be an actual place – there were reported similarities between the layout and the paintings on the walls of the cave which appears to be one of the famous [[Painted|painted]] caves of [[Miekarova]]. When questioned, Dean Simargl reportedly grunted non-committally and mocked the researchers until they went away. 
Like other wards, [[Retreat to the White Caves]] does not prevent a herald (or, in theory, an [[Eternal]]) from entering the protected area. Rather, it robs them of their ability to use their supernatural abilities while they are within the wards. It [[Will|will]], for example, prevent a herald from delivering a [[Curse|curse]] or performing any of their innate abilities. If it were performed in the [[Hall of Worlds]], it is theorised that it would prevent any herald from entering the mortal world via the [[Regio|regio]] at [[Anvil]]. Such a herald would require the active [[Assistance|assistance]] of an Imperial [[Magician|magician]] to “lead them through.” The ward would not prevent the herald entering the Hall of Worlds from the [[Eternal|eternal]] realms, and it is believed it would not stop them departing for their own [[Realm|realm]] – but fascinatingly it clarifies that the ability to enter the mortal [[Realm|realm]] is considered an active ability that can be robbed by magical [[Weakness|weakness]]. 
The ward created by this ritual [[Will|will]] last for an entire season - assuming the warding marks are not disturbed, In practice, if the area sees much use it is likely to be disrupted before the full three months has passed. No herald or direct emissary of an [[Eternal|eternal]] can disturb the ward directly. Due to the duration, several researchers pointed out that it would be possible to make this ritual ward permanent with sufficient [[Ilium]] (sixty-nine rings in fact) but suggested that doing so might be a mistake – the ritual would still collapse if the warding [[Runes|runes]] were disturbed, taking the [[Ilium|ilium]] with it. 
The crotchety [[Urizen]] [[Mage|mage]] Lucien of the Halls of Knowledge (visiting the Lyceum to take advantage of the excellent climate during a particularly cold winter) gave an impromptu lecture regarding reliable methods of creating permanent wards. His suggestion was simply to craft the posts from stone – possibly [[White granite|white granite]] – and carve the [[Runes|runes]] of warding into them permanently. While this would not be foolproof it would mean that the disruption of the ward would require “malice rather than incompetence – which is always preferable.” He further went on to point out that, with crystal mana being considerably more common than [[Ilium|ilium]], permanent warding posts would be just as effective at anchoring this ritual in its existing form – it would simply need to be performed once each season. This would make these posts ideal for protecting any area for a long period of time.
## Common Elements
As with the original ritual, the warding posts can be marked with the [[Wintermark]] [[Runes]] [[Yoorn]] and [[Kyrop]] or the common tower symbol associated with [[Vigilance]]. The original framework of the ritual made repeated use of the Varushkan tradition of using staring humanoid faces or the heads of geese (traditionally associated with [[Vigilance|vigilance]]) and suggested supplementing these symbols with intricate swirling patterns of green, red and blue paint following very precise instructions. 
When performing any warding ritual, the ritualists often walk the boundaries of the warded area, invoking protective talismans. They often burn incense, or scatter ashes, and check that all the warding symbols are intact. Some ritualists place bowls of milk or honey at each entry point. Fire is often used as well, especially when the ritual is performed at [[Night|night]].