---
IgnoreLinking: False
Tags: ['Summer-Ritual', 'Rituals']
Title: Vital Strength of the Earth
aliases: ['Vital_Strength_of_the_Earth']
draft: False
revision_date: 2023-03-09 15:18:38+00:00
revision_id: 98175
---

## Rules
Season|Summer|28
[[Urizen]] Lore
### Performing the [[Ritual]]
Casting time|2  Target Character
[[Enchantment|enchantment]] 
### Effects
When the [[Enchanted|enchanted]] character uses the unstoppable skill they regain up to 5 hits (rather than the usual three). When they use the relentless skill they repair all limbs that have been ruined by the cleave or impale call rather than just one. Whenever they use either ability they they are also cured of the [[Venom|VENOM]] status if they were affected although this effect [[Will|will]] not work if the [[Purify]] spell would fail to remove the [[Venom|VENOM]] effect for any reason.
The character must be in contact with earth or stone to benefit from these abilities. A thin layer of other material [[Will|will]] not prevent the [[Enchantment|enchantment]] working, but being in the air, up a tree, or standing on wooden planks are all sufficient to stop the [[Magic|magic]] taking effect.
While [[Enchanted|enchanted]] the character experiences a [[Roleplaying effect]]: ''you become keenly aware of the fragility of the world and the enduring nature of earth and stone.''
The ritual does not grant access to unstoppable or relentless; the character must have gained those [[Skills|skills]] separately through use of character points or [[Magic Items|magic items]].
Season Duration
### Additional Targets
This ritual can affect additional [[Characters|characters]] from the same [[Banner|banner]]. Every two additional [[Characters|characters]] increases the magnitude by 24. Additional characters must be present throughout.
The other [[Rituals|rituals]] are fine but for me this is the most important. It is not eternals that protect our people but the power of mortal spirits. The supernatural strength imbued in a person by this ritual empowers those most committed to the defence of their homes. At the same time it reminds us of the fragility of our lives, how delicate our sanctuaries are in the face of the mountains on which they are built, and how important it is not to take their safety for granted. An important spiritual [[Insight|insight]], I am sure you will agree.
## Description
This ritual became part of [[Urizen lore]] during [[Winter]] 383YE along with [[Raise the Dragonsworn Cohort]] and Stone's Unyielding Defiance. All three [[Rituals|rituals]] were contained in ''A Year of Perfect Stillness'', a tome of [[Magic|magic]] owned by the magicians of Delving, a [[Spire|spire]] known for their expertise in working stone, in engineering, and in mining. They are also on good terms withAdamant, and ''[[Raise the Dragonsworn Cohort]]'' draws on that [[Eternal|eternal]]'s power. While this ritual does not draw direclty on the power of the [[Eternal|eternal]], it was apparently formulated with his [[Assistance|assistance]]. By all accounts the ''King Under [[The Mountain|the Mountain]]'' is inclined to help the people of [[Urizen]]. The creation of the Three Watchers and the public thanks issued by the Urizen [[Assembly]], as well as the [[Mandate]] encouraging Urizeni to work with eternals all apparently factored in to the architects of Delving receiving his blessing to share the magic he helped to create.
Home to a number of respected architects, they were among the first to see the potential benefits of sharing some of their personal lore with their fellow Urizeni. [[Arbiter]] Severus presented the [[Opportunity|opportunity]] to gain access to the book's rituals in return for an [[Appraisal]] commissioned by the [[Imperial Senate]] to identify sites for new [[Fortifications|fortifications]] in Urizen. When [[The Senate|the Senate]] did so, representatives of the [[Spire]] delivered the scrolls that make up ''A Year of Perfect Stillness'' to [[Anvil]] and it was duly added to Urizen lore.
The Enchantment allows strength and vitality to be drawn from earth and stone, but only when they are in great need. Unless someone already has some ability to exert their will over their body, either innately or through the use of a magic item, the ritual does nothing apart from provide an awarnesss of the enduring nature of rock and stone. Those who have benefited from the ritual talk of being in touch with an inexhaustible reservoir of power which surges into them and massively enhances their constitution and durability for a few moments. They must be in physical contact with a significant amount of earth or stone - generally being on the ground is sufficient. A thing layer of material such as the soles of one's boots, or even a thick rug, will not interfere with the magic. If one is suspended in the air, swimming, climbing a tree, or stood on a floor made of wooden planks however access to the power this ritual provides is temporarily lost. Only part of the body needs to be in contact with the surface - there is a story recounted in ''A Year of Perfect Stillness'' of a [[Sentinel]] who was able to use the enchantment in a [[Thane|thane]]'s wooden hall by keeping one hand in contact with the stone fireplace at all times.
The stone does not have to be natural - worked stone is more than sufficient. However, it is reported that the energy that floods someone when they call on the power of the enchantment in contact with natural earth and stone is somehow more potent, almost overwhelmingly so, than when standing on worked stone.
## Common Elements
This ritual is a personal Enchantment, and thus the people who will benefit from its effects are the focus. The original text talks of using [[The Oak]] to channel the magic - racing it on the chest or forehead of the recipients at the very least. One of the great halls at Delving, where the ritual has been practiced for many years, has a [[White granite|white granite]] floor inlaid with a [[Mithril|mithril]] tracery depicting the [[Constellation|constellation]], and is regularly used for performing this ritual. Indeed, it is apparently regularly performed on a group of thirteen sentinels at once, each one standing on one of the stars of [[The Oak|the Oak]]. Other notes suggest casting the ritual barefoot - both the recipients and the magicians being in direct skin-to-skin contact with earth or soil helps to focus the magic.
There are a few side notes that the [[Runes|runes]] [[Verys]] and perhaps also [[Bravash]] resonate with the ritual. Evocation of the names of [[Adamant]] (obviously) and [[Cathan Canae]]; heraldic magicians might find the mandowla or the hydra support the enchantment.