---
IgnoreLinking: False
Tags: ['Winter-Ritual', 'Rituals', 'Warfare']
Title: Why Sulemaine Walked Away From The Baker
aliases: ['Why_Sulemaine_Walked_Away_From_The_Baker']
draft: False
revision_date: 2023-08-03 23:11:10+00:00
revision_id: 104264
---

## Rules
Season|Winter|80
### Performing the [[Ritual]]
Casting time|10 Imperial Reduction
This ritual targets an [[Imperial army]]. The [[General|general]] responsible for the army (or the [[Egregore|egregore]] if the [[General|general]] is not at [[Anvil]]) must be present throughout.
[[Enchantment|enchantment]]
### Effects
At the completion of the ritual, the [[General|general]] used as the focus for the ritual becomes subject to [[Venom|VENOM]]. This condition can be removed in the normal way. At the same time, the ritual hardens the soldiers resistance to venoms and infections. The effectiveness of the [[Fire in the Blood]] order used by an opposing army in the same campaign is halved against this army. 
While the army is [[Enchanted|enchanted]], the [[General|general]] experiences a [[Roleplaying effect]]: ''You regularly experience rheumatic aches and pains, stiffness, stomach upsets, and headaches. You regularly catch colds and sniffles. You suffer short-lived pangs of hunger, thirst, fever, or chills that come on you randomly through the [[Day|day]].  Furthermore, when you sleep you are prone to nightmare-like dreams of being poisoned, of being in places where you experience crippling hunger or thirst, of being hunted by venomous monsters, or of being forced to endure sickness or bodily infirmity.'' 
These effects are particularly pronounced and disturbing for a character with the [[Draughir]] [[Lineage]]. 
Season Duration
[[Sulemaine]] and the BakerIt is said that one day, long ago, the [[Sword scholar|Sword Scholar]] [[Sulemaine]] turned up at the [[Spire|spire]] of an Urizeni baker. When the baker came out to greet her she asked him ‘What is it that you wish of life?’ The baker replied ‘To be the best baker I can possibly be.’ ‘Well then,’ replied [[Sulemaine]], ‘I shall return to this [[Spire|spire]] one year from today and if you do not feed me the tastiest pastry that ever I have eaten then I [[Will|will]] cut you in two’ and she swished her sword around dramatically to emphasise the point.
The baker was greatly afeared for he had heard of the reputation of [[Sulemaine]] for cutting people in half at the drop of a hat, so he immediately set to work trying to perfect his art. For a season he practiced and practiced baking his pastries. He became very good at baking, but he knew that it would not be enough. Over the next season he travelled to other [[Spires|spires]] learning how the best bakers in [[Urizen]] baked their pastries, but he knew that it would not be enough. In the third season he travelled [[The Empire|the Empire]], learning the techniques of baking from many nations, especially those of [[Karov]] in [[Varushka]] where they are famous their baking, but he knew that it would not be enough. In the fourth season he collected recipes and techniques from many [[Foreign Nations|foreign nations]]. All the while he became rich and famous for the quality of his baking, and people came from all around to buy his pastries, but he knew that it would not be enough.
Then one day, a year from her first appearance, the [[Sword scholar|Sword Scholar]] [[Sulemaine]] returned to the [[Spire|spire]] of the baker and demanded to sample his pastries. Eating one she proclaimed ‘This is indeed a very fine pastry master baker, but it is not the finest I have ever tasted.’ The baker replied ‘I knew it would not be enough, for there is more to such things than the art of the baker and the quality of the ingredients. The tastiest of pastries is made so by the memories that accompany it – baking in the kitchen of one’s parents, the joy of eating one’s first flakey pastry as a child, and so forth. Because I knew it would not be enough I have also spent the last year becoming a supremely skilled poisoner.’ With that Sulemaine laughed heartily, clapped the baker on the back, and finished her pastry. Relieved that he had not been chopped in two, the baker went into his [[Spire|spire]] to fetch the antidote, but when he returned he found that Sulemaine had walked away.
In his speech to [[Conclave]] placing the ritual into [[Imperial lore]] Simargl claimed to have been visited by Sulemaine in a dream and set the task of answering within a year why she had walked away from the baker. The ritual was offered by way of an answer.
## Description
The original research that lead to the creation of this ritual was undertaken by Palaphon during [[Spring]] 381YE. His original research was eventually codified at the Lyceum under the guidance of the Dean, the Empty One, occupying the attentions of the entire Lyceum through much of 382YE. Work was completed, in spite of threats from the [[Grendel]], shortly before the [[Autumn]] Equinox of that year. The name of the ritual changed several times during the process of codification, but in the end the Dean settled on ''[[Why Sulemaine Walked Away From The Baker]]'', apparently in reference to some story about the controversial founder of the [[Sword scholar|sword scholar]] movement in [[Urizen]].
In addition to the work performed by the usual arcane scholars and magical theoreticians, the staff of the Lyceum were granted additional [[Assistance|assistance]] by a number of “friends” of the [[Eternal|eternal]] [[Sadogua]], dispatched by the Brother of Wizards at the behest of the Dean. Most of these “friends” were Imperial magicians normally disinterested in academic pursuits, primarily from [[The Brass Coast]], [[Wintermark]], and [[Navarr]], but included a handful of actual heralds of the Father of Bats. With their [[Assistance|assistance]], the ritual was codified significantly more swiftly than would be expected for such a powerful [[Enchantment|enchantment]].
The ritual has a profound effect on the soldiers of the army on which it is cast. While their [[General|general]] is wracked with minor aches and pains, unseasonal colds, and bad dreams the soldiers feel hale and hearty. They do not become sick, and prove especially resistant to poisons and venoms of all kinds. They can still be crippled by an envenomed weapon, but they recover quickly from anything except a fatal blow. Furthermore, the soldiers find that they can eat almost any food without becoming ill. In a manner similar to a [[Draughir|draughir]], they can consume stale bread, brackish water, or spoiled meat without ill effect.
While it is not traditionally seen as a resonance of the [[Winter]] [[Realm|realm]], the concept of suffering is closely tie to the [[Eternal]] [[Sorin]]. Yet to cause suffering in another without a purpose is merely cruelty. While the [[Winter Realm|Winter realm]] can be cruel this does not mean that all suffering is cruel in its nature. For [[Sorin]], and for some scholars of the Winter [[Realm|realm]], suffering is a means to an end. By enduring privation – hunger, thirst, exhaustion – an individual can be come inured to the effects. By exposing the general to [[Venom|venom]], they symbolically pass the ability to endure that [[Venom|venom]] to their soldiers.
The ritual draws on two key resonances of the Winter [[Realm|realm]]. The first is survival - the urge to live is a powerful instinct, enhanced by [[Winter magic]]. The [[Realm|realm]] is effective at weaving enchantments such as [[Unyielding Constitution]] or [[Fight Tooth and Nail]] that help the beneficiary endure pain. The [[Enchantment|enchantment]] of ''[[Why Sulemaine Walked Away From The Baker|Why Sulemaine Walked Away from the Baker]]'' draws on this resonance specifically to allow the soldiers affected by the [[Magic|magic]] to survive the effects of [[Venom|venom]], poison, and disease.
The other key resonance utilised in this ritual is that of preservation. For all the darker powers commonly associated with the [[Realm|realm]], Winter has a predilection for keeping things as they are – for opposing change even if it leads to stagnation. In the case of this ritual, in keeping with the resonance of Survival, the [[Winter magic]] works to preserve a state of “good health” in the target. It should not be taken to mean that Winter is adept at healing, or would be as effective at creating an [[Enchantment|enchantment]] to allow one to endure wounds. Rather, the idea of Preservation is tied somewhat to a third resonance: [[Weakness|weakness]]. Normally, the Winter Realm is preoccupied with ageing and especially with the [[Weakness|weakness]] and infirmity that comes from old age. Yet the [[Magic|magic]] of [[Weakness|weakness]] need not be solely aimed at a mortal body. [[Winter magic]] [[Will|will]] also weaken objects and structures. In this case, the [[Weakness|weakness]] is aimed specifically towards the poisons, diseases, and venoms that attempt to overcome the soldiers of the army.
## Common Elements
The ritual resonates with the theme of the endurance that is mastered and tested through suffering. As such, the general who is he focus for the [[Enchantment|enchantment]] may be threatened with privation, torment, or injury by the [[Coven|coven]]; they are expected to remain stoic throughout enduring the descriptions of suffering without flinching.
The Dean originally suggested that the ritual should require an invocation of Grandmother Winter, Clever Spider. Other totems might also be appropriate, especially those known for their great strength or endurance – the stag, the bear, or the boar.
A suggested element is the use of a strengthening or heartening draught infused with poisonous [[Herbs|herbs]], consumed by the general at the mid-point of the ritual. Another suggested element is the painting – or for a blood [[Magician|magician]] cutting – of a symbol representing the poisonous thorns of a winter plant on to the target.
Some experimentation with [[Astronomancy]] suggests that [[The Oak]] and [[The Stallion]] are both good [[Constellations|constellations]] to use with this ritual. 
Additional text about Sulemaine from The Empty One