---
IgnoreLinking: False
Tags: ['Inspirations']
Title: Nicolo Barossa
aliases: ['Nicolo_Barossa']
draft: False
revision_date: 2017-09-25 09:44:31+00:00
revision_id: 56169
---

## Virtue
[[Nicolo Barossa]] de [[Tassato]] Regario was recognised as an exemplar of [[Prosperity]] by [[The Synod|the Synod]] at the [[Winter]] Solstice of 377YE.
## Biography
[[Nicolo Barossa]] was a shrewd businessman of [[The League|the League]], proud of his home city of [[Tassato]] Regario, as well as a committed soldier who distinguished himself on [[The Battlefield|the battlefield]].
Shortly after the death of Britta, Nicolo became Master of the Mint and used his position to gain a wealth of information about the Imperial economy, demanding that [[The Senate|the Senate]] have the hard facts they needed to make efficient and prosperous decisions. In this period he made numerous enemies, including rivals in [[The Bourse|the Bourse]] who he lambasted for profiteering, as well as Senators who he accused of supporting or allowing deals which would lead to rampant inflation. Never one to hoard wealth, he believed it had to be spent, but spent wisely.
In the year following [[Empress Britta]]'s death, Nicolo fought in every battle with [[The League|the League]], including numerous engagements in [[Karsk]], the [[Territory|territory]] which was to eventually claim his life. He had no time for those who eschewed what he saw as their martial duty, wearing his armour to the [[Senate]] if necessary so he could march straight to battle once his work was done.
Having received a vision of a Past Life, Nicolo sought the advice of his [[Guide|guide]] priest, Tancred De Rondell of [[Dawn]]. Together they identified clues to the location of a heretical relic, [[The Cup]] of Peace, said to be buried near [[Tassato]]. They made it their mission to seek out this cup, which was corrupting Imperial citizens to a false Virtue. On the final mission to retrieve [[The Cup|the Cup]], Nicolo insisted that those guarding it not be killed, as it was more important to bring them back to the true faith of [[The Way]]. Once retrieved, [[The Cup|the Cup]] was hallowed to [[Prosperity]], to make it a true relic and have its power used for the benefit of humanity.
The battle in which Nicolo died saw him make a choice to face death rather than compromise. Imperial forces had been sent to stop [[Thule]] orcs from performing a series of corrupted [[Rituals|rituals]]. With the army split in two, Nicolo was part of a small force which came upon the final [[Ritual|ritual]] as it was in the midst of being performed. Faced with a clear decision to wait for reinforcements, but let the orcs complete the ritual, or attack immediately against superior odds, the small force of Leaguers, Brass Coast and Marchers charged. They killed the [[Thule]] ritualists, but were immediately counter-attacked by a vastly superior force.
Nicolo stood in the rearguard which allowed other Imperial soldiers to get to safety, surrounded by his [[Family|family]]. As they lay bleeding and broken, Nicolo and his guildmates crawled together to join hands and recite their [[Banner|banner]] oath in defiance at the [[Barbarians|barbarians]] around them. Angered by their refusal to show fear, the orcs slit their throats.
Nicolo's body was recovered by Imperial forces which arrived on the field soon after, able to win the [[Day|day]] because of their sacrifice. He was carried back to [[Anvil]], there to be interred in his [[Family|family]] crypt in [[Tassato]] Regario. The Varushkan miners who were rescued because this final victory dedicated their families' stored wealth to the good of [[The Empire|the Empire]], in a final act of [[Prosperity]].
## Signs
The [[Assembly]] of [[Prosperity]] held that the [[Nicolo Barossa]] de [[Tassato]] Regario of the Crimson Foxes in the [[League]] demonstrated the following signs of being an exemplar:
* [[Pilgrimage]]: In his journeys to [[Anvil]], Nicolo’s faith took him from [[Dedication|dedication]] to [[Ambition]], via a realisation of his true path, and his experiences in his [[Past life vision|past life vision]], to become (as was written on his soul) a true Prosperous Pilgrim.
* Salvation: Nicolo realised that his soul was called in this life, as in the past, to deal with a cult of Peace. In destroying said cult, he freed & saved the oppressed and infected souls from idolatry.
* [[Legacy]]: He retrieved [[The Cup|the Cup]] of Peace, exorcised and cleansed it, and arranged for its permanent hallowing to [[Prosperity]] as [[The Cup|the Cup]] of Nicolo.
* Benevolence: In his work as Master of the Mint, Nicolo pulled [[The Empire|the Empire]] back from bankruptcy several times: most notably in galvanising the [[Synod]] to [[Veto|veto]] the economically devastating [[Skarsind]] [[Mine]] Motion. He also remained many hours after senate meetings using his time and [[Wisdom|wisdom]] to instruct and inspire senators on economic theory and principle.
* Inspiration: As well as the senators he taught who use his advice in all their works, there are students of his who continue his economic instruction with the signature ‘Pupil of Nicolo’.
### Controversy
* The [[Recognition|recognition]] of [[Nicolo Barossa]] de Tassato Regario was coterminous with a [[Senate motion|Senate Motion]] raised by Hywel Summercrow that amended the Synod's [[Recognition|recognition]] of exemplars. It was held that the [[Judgement|judgement]] of [[Recognition|recognition]] had commenced under the older system of [[Recognition|recognition]] and would therefore stand even though the [[Senate motion|Senate Motion]] passed before the [[Judgement|judgement]] concluded.