---
IgnoreLinking: False
Tags: ['Inspirations']
Title: Permion
draft: False
revision_date: 2018-04-11 12:12:39+00:00
revision_id: 62278
---

## Virtue
[[Permion]], the Lawmaker, was recognised as an Exemplar of [[Courage]] by the Highborn [[Assembly]] of the Virtuous following his martyrdom.
## Biography
Called "the Lawmaker", [[Permion]] was the last navigator (similar to king) of [[Highguard]], and a descendant of [[Atuman]]. At a time when the Highborn patricians had become especially corrupt, he refused to be a figurehead and instead attempted to serve all his people - not just the rich and privileged. He reached out to the [[Chapters|chapters]] who had embraced the Revelation, most especially to [[Lepidus]] of the Seven Stars, and encouraged them to bring their understanding of spirituality and virtue to the people.
He openly opposed the excesses of the patrician families, actively wielding the powers of his title for the first time in several generations. In theory, the patricians existed as an advisory body to the navigator - in practice, they had been running the nation as they saw fit. Each [[Family|family]] treated their domain as their personal kingdom, and the people who lived there as their subjects. Permion took a stand against them, and when it became clear that they were interested only in their own privilege and power, dissolved the Council and invited the exarchs of the chapters to form an [[Assembly]] of the Virtuous to advise him instead.
The Patricians responded by assassinating Permion, his wife, and three of his [[Children|children]]. Bloody civil [[War|war]] broke out between the patricians and the chapters. The patricians were unprepared for [[The Military|the military]] force that the chapters were able to bring to bear against them - their time in the wilderness had honed their fighting ability to a degree that the corrupt and indolent patricians could not match. More importantly, perhaps, they had the power of Virtue on their side. Where the soldiers of the patricians fought as often as not for coin, the armies of the chapters fought with [[Courage]], [[Pride]], and [[Loyalty]]. More importantly, perhaps, they had clear proof of the Patrician's wickedness - they had used subterfuge and treachery to murder a virtuous man and his [[Family|family]] for the "crime" of standing up for what he knew to be right.
After the civil [[War|war]] ended, the Assembly of the Virtuous were unable to recover the body of Permion. A memorial was constructed to him in the [[Necropolis]], and in time he was recognised as an Exemplar of Courage. 
## Controversy
There are stories that far from being lost, [[Lepidus]] recovered the bodies of Permion and his family and had them interred in a tomb befitting their sacrifice. According to these same stories, some time after Lepidus' own death, the Virtuous Assembly, or a faction within it, had the location of [[The Tomb|the tomb]] stricken from the records. Scholars who support this theory claim they did so out of concern that Permion might serve as a rallying point for Highborn who did not support the Virtuous Assembly. While Permion was the enemy of the patricians, he was still the navigator, and in the years after the end of the civil war there were still a significant number of people in the nation who would have preferred to see a navigator restored, albeit one advised by the Virtuous Assembly rather than the corrupt patricians.
These same rumours surround the decision that Permion was an exemplar, rather than a [[Paragon|paragon]]. His supporters at the time and since argue that his Courage was no less than Lepidus' [[Pride]] - his resolve and commitment to forging a newer, more virtuous [[Highguard]] was at least as significant as the Virtue of Lepidus and the exarchs. The same historians who argue that the Virtuous Assembly was concerned about a potential return to the time of [[The Navigators|the navigators]] argue that they actively downplayed Permion's role, and recognised only the "lesser" status of exemplar, to further minimize his influence over the reformed nation of Highguard.
A few go further, and make wild claims that it was the Virtuous Assembly themselves - perhaps even Lepidus - who gave the order for Permion to be slain with the intention of starting the civil war that destroyed the patricians. These individuals are largely dismissed - there is absolutely no evidence to support their version of [[History|history]], and indeed the bulk of the evidence entirely refutes it. Lepidus was personally devastated by the loss of Permion, and the murder of his children - the youngest no more than twelve years old - outraged the chapters. If any [[Exarch|exarch]] had given such an order, they would most likely have been exposed and executed by their own [[Chapter|chapter]]. This does not prevent patrician apologists surfacing from time to time, but any who attempt to peddle their loathsome version of history are generally given short shrift by the Highborn and [[The Synod|the Synod]].
## Signs
* Historical records agree that Permion was plain spoken, sincere, and courageous throughout his life. His refusal to accept corruption and wickedness, and his drive to represent and bring comfort to all his people, are a sign of his Benevolence.
* Permion is an Inspiration to the people of Highguard, but also to anyone who wishes to act in a righteous manner even when surrounded by enemies and detractors.
* Permion brought Salvation to the people of Highguard by clearing away the corrupt patricians, welcoming the Virtuous Assembly, and encouraging the people to embrace the Virtuous life.
* His [[Legacy]], like that of [[Atuman]] before him, is the nation of Highguard (and, to a lesser extent, [[The Empire|the Empire]] it founded).
## Permion in Play
### Recent History
TBC.
### Inspirational Tomb
TBC.
### Basilica of Permion
The Basilica of Permion in [[Bastion]] is a scaled-down recreation of the Palace of [[The Navigators|the Navigators]], which was destroyed by the Patricians during the [[Burning|burning]] of Pharos. The interior is consecrated with true [[Liao|liao]]. Pilgrims come here when they are faced with a difficult decision, to meditate on the lessons of Permion's life, and to understand what they know in their hearts is the right course of action to take.