---
IgnoreLinking: False
Title: Concord
draft: False
revision_date: 2023-07-02 18:12:28+00:00
revision_id: 102899
tags: ['Conclave']
---

## Overview
A [[Declaration]] of [[Concord]] allows the [[Imperial Conclave]] to agree a statement of belief, intent or support. It communicates the [[Will|will]] of [[The Conclave|the Conclave]] as a body not only to the magicians of [[The Empire|the Empire]], but to eternals and mortal factions alike. The wording of any successful [[Declaration]] of [[Concord]] is communicated across [[The Empire|the Empire]] by the Civil Service once the summit has ended.
The [[Declaration]] has no binding legal consequences in itself, but it clearly expresses the intent of the [[Conclave]], so it is often used when the Conclave wish to demonstrate their collective [[Will|will]] to another Imperial political house such as [[The Senate|the Senate]]. It can also be used to accept, or reject, offers and proposals from outside sources such as eternals, factions within [[The Empire|the Empire]], and [[Foreign Nations|foreign nations]]. Indeed, such offers often come with the requirement that a suitably worded [[Declaration]] of [[Concord]] be passed to indicate that the Conclave is in favour of the proposal.
The [[Imperial Magus]] is empowered to raise a [[Declaration]] of [[Concord]], once each summit. This declaration, takes precedence over most other declarations. It is deliberated first during a [[Conclave session|conclave session]], or second if [[The Throne]] has nominated a prime declaration.
==Necessary Details== 
* The wording of a Declaration of [[Concord]] must explicitly state the assertion that the Conclave is upholding
The Declaration must clearly state what it is that the Conclave agrees on in the wording of the text. It is common to have wording such as "the Conclave believes..." or "The magicians of [[The Empire|the Empire]] support...". The declaration should be a clear simple expression of what it is the Conclave wishes or are doing (or that they reject). In [[General|general]], more is less - the longer and the more complex the wording, the less clear the resulting declaration [[Will|will]] be. Civil Service guidelines suggest that a few concise sentences are the best way for the Conclave to communicate their intentions to others.
It is important to remember that the wording of a Declaration of Concord cannot be amended after it is submitted, and is recorded verbatim. If the declaration passes, it is the wording on the original declaration that is distributed to the magicians of [[The Empire|the Empire]] regardless of what was said during the debate.
Examples
* This Conclave requests that the [[Senate]] not construct a [[Fane|fane]] without a suitably worded declaration passing in Conclave.
* The Conclave accepts [[Lashonar]]'s gracious boon
* The magicians of the Empire should guard against the machinations of [[Agramant]], working with the [[Magistrates|magistrates]] to expose and destroy cults dedicated to that wicked [[Eternal|eternal]].
## Resolution
* The wording of any successful Declaration of Concord is disseminated to magicians across the Empire by the Civil Service
Any Declaration of Concord that passes is noted by the Civil Service, and the text of the declaration is disseminated to every Imperial [[Magician|magician]]. In practice, this means that the wording of a Declaration of Concord [[Will|will]] generally reach the ears of interested outsiders as well - representatives of eternals, Imperial factions, or foreign interests - with a specific interest in the matter of the declaration.
A declaration that fails is noted in the official Conclave records, but no effort is made to distribute the details. The assumption is that there are many reasons to reject a proposed Declaration of Concord and it is [[Folly|folly]] to read too much into that decision.
Note that the Conclave can only vote to uphold, or reject, a Declaration of Concord. They cannot vote to change the wording, for example. As such it is very important to ensure the wording is as concise and clear as possible.
If the Declaration of Concord addresses an offer by an outside force, a successful Declaration of Concord indicates the Conclave's decision with regard to that proposal.
## OOC Design
* NPCs that are looking for the Conclave to take a stance on an issue [[Will|will]] respond to a successful Declaration of Concord
* Profound Decisions will note any response by NPCs on the [[History|history]] page for that [[Conclave session|Conclave Session]]
* A Declaration of Concord ''may'' lead to further campaign developments if it provokes a strong response in the NPC magicians who hear it
The precise wording of a Declaration of Concord that passes is disseminated to Imperial magicians. First and foremost, this means that it is recorded on [[The wiki|the wiki]] for any player character to read. Like the [[Statement of Principle]] [[Judgement]] used by the [[Imperial Synod]], however, a Declaration of Concord may lead to a response from plot. Unlike a [[Statement of Principle]] there is no hard-and-fast measure for whether a declaration will provoke a response from the magicians of the Empire. ''Any'' successful Declaration of Concord could influence an ongoing situation, or even prompt a Wind of Fortune. 
Wherever possible, Profound Decisions will note the [[General|general]] response to a Declaration of Concord. Often this will simply be polite interest, or a note that the magicians of a certain nation or [[Archetype|archetype]] are discussing the implications. Other times, it may prompt a strong response from NPC magicians that leads to a full Wind of Fortune in its own right. Most things do not lead to a strong response - for example a Declaration of Concord urging magicians to support efforts to [[Repel|repel]] the [[Druj]] in [[Tassato]] is unlikely to have a significant impact, because most people are already doing what they can to help the Imperial [[War|war]] effort. But a Declaration of Concord asking magicians to root out traitors and [[Druj]] sympathisers in the city is more likely to provoke a significant response.
The Declaration of Concord is primarily aimed at Imperial magicians, and is no substitute for a plenipotentiary or ambassadorial communique. A Declaration of Concord intended to address outside faction is much less likely to prompt any kind of response, except where that outside faction is already paying attention to Conclave politics. For example, the decision to allow the ''Zauberer'' of the [[Commonwealth]] unfettered access to [[Imperial lore|Imperial Lore]], and the subsequent establishment of the Lyceum Schloss means that many magicians of that nation are following [[Imperial Conclave]] declarations with interest. A Declaration of Concord dealing with relations between Imperial magicians and [[The Commonwealth|the Commonwealth]] Zauberer is more likely to produce a response than if the [[Commonwealth]] were not involved in Conclave politics.
If a Declaration of Concord does ''not'' pass, it is not considered to be the same as the Conclave saying they do ''not'' believe something - it is generally accepted by Imperial citizens, eternals, and foreigners alike that there are a number of reasons why the precise wording of a concord may not be upheld.
Conclave further reading