---
IgnoreLinking: False
Title: Heal
draft: False
revision_date: 2020-05-14 17:23:50+00:00
revision_id: 79604
tags: ['Spells', 'Magic']
---

## Description
This powerful spell restores the physical vitality of a target, even one that is on the verge of death. It is equally effective at restoring a scribe who has taken a minor wound, or a hulking [[Ogre]] who has been critically injured. There seems to be no limit to the ability of this spell to restore someone to full strength. The experience of being healed by [[Magic|magic]] is highly subjective; some patient describe it as a great burst of vitality that rushes through them like a flood; others as a slow trickle of sensation that begins at the [[Magician|magician]]'s hands and spreads with growing speed throughout their bodies.
The power of this spell is indiscriminate; it cannot be used to partially [[Heal|heal]] someone (such as a prisoner). Further, it can [[Heal|heal]] almost anything animate, even things that might otherwise not be considered to be alive in the usual sense - it restores shambling husks and ushabti as efficiently as it restores a human or [[Imperial Orcs]]. On the other hand, it is unable to help things that are not animate - while a tree can be considered to be alive, the [[Heal|heal]] spell has no effect on it.
This is perhaps the most powerful source of emergency healing available in [[The Empire|the Empire]], but its abilities are strictly delineated. It [[Will|will]] not help with a traumatic wound; someone may be fully healed but slowly dying from a ruptured spleen or fractured skull. It [[Will|will]] not regenerate a crippled or ruined limb, nor [[Combat|combat]] poison, [[Venom|venom]], curses, [[Weakness|weakness]] or diseases. While magical methods of dealing with all these conditions exist, a magician who wishes to optimise their medicinal capabilities [[Will|will]] need to learn additional spells such as [[Restore Limb]] and [[Purify]].
Magical healing requires the magician to focus their attention on the patient, and anything that disrupts that attention causes the spell to fail. More than any other regular spell, [[Heal|heal]] is likely to be cast in dangerous environments, and the magician must take care that neither they nor their target are in immediate danger of having to [[Fight|fight]] before they begin the spell. A single blow, regardless of who strikes it or is struck, can disrupt the spell forcing the magician to start again. Magicians who anticipate needing to [[Heal|heal]] allies caught in the middle of an engagement often make reparations to support repeatedly swift casting the spell - although it has a somewhat reduced effect from the regular casting. Others invest in specialist items or enchantments such as a [[Trollsweave Vest]] or the [[Hands of the Healer]].
There are several [[Magical Items|magical items]] that can enhance or [[Empower|empower]] the heal spell. They range from simple tools such as Altruist's Recompense wand that lets a magician share in some of the healing they provide, [[All the way|all the way]] to objects of great power such as the [[Woundbinder]] or the [[Robe of Blood and Bone]] which can dramatically increase the number of times the spell can be cast in a [[Day|day]].
## Casting
Regular Spell|1
## Effects
This spell completely restores all lost hits to a living target. It does not affect a limb that has been affected by a CLEAVE or IMPALE call.
## Swift casting
* The heal spell can be swift cast for 2 mana
When swift cast, the heal spell restores only 3 hits to the target rather than restoring all their hits
## Sample Vocals
The following are sample vocals you can use to cast this spell if you don't want to make up your own.
* (''touching the target with a blade'') "The day is not done, it is not time to sleep / I charge you to awake, your [[Courage|courage]] revealed / Arise this moment, your battle oaths to keep / Stand now, and step forth for you are healed!"
* (''evoking [[Rhyv]]'') "You are wounded, and your blood has been spilled on the ground, but the well of life is bottomless. Blood [[Calls|calls]] to blood, my blood to yours, both of us bound by the ebb and flow of the [[Eternal|eternal]] sea. Let me share my strength with you, it is like the ocean, let it flow into you. It leaves me undiminished, and fills you with life, healing your wounds."
* (''sprinkling water'') "Things heal. What is broken shall be mended. What is weak shall be made strong. Things now apart [[Will|will]] come together and be made one. Drink now from the celestial chalice, drink deeply from [[The Cup|the cup]] of the heavens and behold! You are healed!"
* "Life [[Calls|calls]] to life; I tell you now to let the life flow into and through you, to wash away your pains; your wounds are stripped away before the torrent of life, which always finds a way. My power fills you, in every corner of your being, filling you with life and raising you up. Live, stand, be healed!"
## Common Elements
* [[Rune]] [[Magic]]: The rune of Blood, [[Rhyv]], is usually invoked with healing [[Magic|magic]] and this spell is no exception. On a battlefield [[Verys]] or [[Tykonus]], might be used especially when healing a soldier who needs the strength to return to the fray.
* [[Astronomancy]]: An astronomancer is likely to invoke [[The Chalice]] to heal someone, and may even carry an actual cup or water skin marked with the six stars of the [[Constellation|constellation]] to use with this spell.
* [[Dramaturgy]]: The persona of [[The Witch]] is considered a good fit for healing [[Magic|magic]], but [[The Bishop]] is also a reasonable choice - she restores and strengthens the spirit and the body alike. In a similar way, the boundless enthusiasm of [[The Mountebank]] can be harnessed in a way that trivialises the patient's wounds and fills them with the energy. When time is of the essence, the instrument of [[The Blade]] is evoked - there is rarely much shortage of physical blades on a battlefield; when the magician has more time, [[The Throne|the throne]] of [[The Library]] is evoked with soothing words and images. Surprisingly, [[The Doctor]] is rarely used with this spell; its primal nature is seen as being at odds with the cool rationality of that persona which is more suited to cutting out infection. 
* Other traditions: All traditions see value in using water or water imagery with this spell, to cleanse a wound or as a damp cloth applied to the patient. Fire is also a primal healing image, sometimes drawing on the symbolism of cauterising a wound. The [[Herb|herb]] [[True Vervain]], even for a magical healer, has strong associations with healing and restoring strength.
* [[Realms]]: The obvious correlation of this spell is with the [[Spring]] [[Realm|realm]]. It fills a target from a bottomless reservoir of vitality and life. It also possesses resonance with the [[Realm|realm]] of [[Summer]], however - it imbues the target with the strength to keep fighting, allowing them to shrug off even potentially fatal blows and return to the battle or escape their enemies. A few magicians, especially Varushkan spellcasters, consider the spell to have connections with [[Winter]], preserving the target and delaying their inevitable demise for a short time.
* Further Reading: If you plan to make extensive use of this spell, you may want to read over [[Healing in Empire]], a short article about medicine in [[The Empire|the Empire]] world.