---
IgnoreLinking: False
Title: Navarr leadership
aliases: ['Navarr_leadership']
draft: False
revision_date: 2023-05-05 15:43:36+00:00
revision_id: 100400
tags: ['Navarr']
---

Throughout their [[History|history]] the [[Navarr]] have always adapted and followed the most suitable people required to meet the challenges of the time. It is expected that their leaders [[Will|will]] be [[Brands]]. The [[Navarr]] see leadership as an important but onerous responsibility, with the leaders viewed as servants of the community. Although not all Brands are leaders, [[Navarr]] who persistently try to offer leadership to others who haven't become Brands are regarded with suspicion. The purpose of leadership is to give direction to the community- it should be for the benefit of everyone in the [[Striding]] or [[Steading]] - in the [[Navarr]] eyes you can't be a [[Fit and proper|fit and proper]] leader unless you have become a [[Brand]] first.
Rather than formally appoint their leaders, the [[Navarr]] follow those Brands whose leadership seems wisest and most effective. The Navarr have no need of mechanisms to remove their leaders; since their leaders have no formal authority their importance comes from the people who elect to follow them and do what they say. If a leader makes unwise decisions, if people have become so unhappy with the current leadership, then they are expected to find themselves a new leader.
In theory the leadership of a [[Striding]] or [[Steading]] is totally fluid - in practice the Navarr are not gadflies. They understand that leadership is difficult and arduous and that leaders must often make unpopular decisions. Most Navarr strive to give their leaders as much support as they can and it is relatively rare for them to leave a [[Steading]] or [[Striding]] simply to follow a new leader. The fact that they can do this at any time, however, underpins their social system; the Navarr feel it ensures their leaders stay focussed on serving their community but also helps to prevent grumbling or whining about decisions that have been made. Individuals are expected to either support their [[Brand]]'s leadership or move to follow a different [[Brand]].
It is common for a larger community of Navarr to have more than one [[Brand]] providing leadership, each with an area of responsibility or specialism. Such communities operate either through the informal co-operation of the Brands, or employ a system where the [[Brand]] whose responsibilities apply most appropriately to the current crisis takes the lead. When [[Navarr groups]] meet, the Brands usually cooperate or choose to follow one of their number who seems to offer effective overall leadership if that is required. 
## Leading a [[Territory|territory]]
The Navarr appoint the [[Senator]] for a Territory by communal agreement. Those who would speak for the territory step forward; the candidate must be Navarr but may be from any territory. Once the candidates are clear, the Navarr present choose who to stand behind. The process is very fluid, it is common for individuals and [[Groups|groups]] to move to coalesce support where it appears to be most effective. Once it is clear that everyone has made a choice, the individual with the most support becomes [[Senator|senator]] for the territory.
Only Navarr whose personal [[Resource]] is located in the territory may participate in the vote. Although Stridings travel around [[The Empire|the Empire]], individual resources are always in a territory, so this is the legal basis for determining where you may vote. [[The Law|The law]] means that Navarr whose personal resource is in a non-Imperial territory such as [[Liathaven]] or [[Brocéliande]] cannot vote in a senatorial election (although they can still volunteer themselves as candidate for the title of [[Senator|senator]]).
Anyone who has recently taken part in choosing a [[Senator]] who then moves territory is forbidden from voting in an election in their new territory until a year has passed.
Navarr Senators have a reputation for tactical voting. They accrue political capital with Senators of other nations which they use on key votes, either for the good of Navarr as a nation or for [[The Empire|the Empire]] as a whole. 
The senators for each Imperial territory are re-elected at specific equinox and solstices during the year. The [[Senator|senator]] for [[Miaren]] is elected at the [[Summer]] solstice, the senator for [[Therunin]] is elected at the [[Autumn]] equinox, and the senator for [[Hercynia]] is elected at the [[Winter]] solstice.
### Incumbent
The current Navarr senators are listed below - see the individual territory pages for a full election history for each position.
* [[Hercynia]] - #lst:Archive:All_Election_Results|Senator_for_Hercynia_occupant
* [[Miaren]] - #lst:Archive:All_Election_Results|Senator_for_Miaren_occupant
* [[Therunin]] - #lst:Archive:All_Election_Results|Senator_for_Therunin_occupant
Senator Jonquil. You would interdict the passage of Ivawr's [[Striding]] through [[Dawn]] because of what? Some nascent ill-founded fear that our journeys beyond the borders of our glorious Empire [[Will|will]] bring a [[Barbarian|barbarian]] horde in its wake?
Your Imperial Majesty, it was Riordan who risked all to bring news of the Scaled Host’s [[March On|march on]] [[The Brass Coast|the Brass Coast]]. It was the bravery of Pwyll of Therun that lured the Black Byter into the embrace of [[The Vallorn|the Vallorn]] and it was the Thornborn of Mourn – the like of whom we shall never see again – who defied the Swarm of Vasseir to see your Lord Husband safe to this [[Assembly|assembly]].
We have walked the [[Trods]] of these lands since the Sun and the Moon began their heavenly dance, we have witnessed the deep places and we have guarded your hearth. We leave behind the light so you can rest behind stone-walls. We have earned our place in this magnificent endeavor and we shall claim our birthright. Come, walk with us, noble Jonquil. We have no fear – let us banish yours.
Navarr Links