---
IgnoreLinking: False
Tags: ['Highguard', 'Vallorn', 'Navarr']
Title: Trod
draft: False
revision_date: 2023-08-10 14:57:14+00:00
revision_id: 104639
---

## Overview
The [[Trods|trods]] are magically [[Enchanted|enchanted]] paths that weave and wind their way across the majority of [[The Empire|the Empire]]. They have special significance to the [[Navarr]], but they are also invaluable to Imperial travelers, merchants, and soldiers. People who use trods - some of which see more travel than the Imperial roads - feel refreshed each morning as if they had spend a [[Night|night]] in the finest beds. They are able to walk for many miles without becoming tired, allowing them to cover great distances.
Trods rarely form in straight lines - they meander across the [[Landscape|landscape]] in complex patterns. Travelers who use the trods to speed their movement often do so only sporadically as part of a more direct journey.
The trods also nurture the land through which they pass - plants of all kinds grow more freely near trods, and prove to be more hardy.
## Trods and the [[Navarr]]
As a [[Striding]] migrates along the trods the unconstrained [[Spring magic|Spring Magic]] which is the heart of [[The Vallorn|the Vallorn]] is slowly leached away.  The longer the [[Trod|trod]] and the larger the [[Striding|striding]] the greater the effect. However, this [[Magic|magic]] is not just bled into the ether but is returned to the land and in some small way the people that travel the [[Trod|trod]]. 
A [[Trod|trod]] starts and ends at a [[Vallorn]]. As a [[Vallorn|vallorn]] grows more powerful as the [[Navarr]] advance closer to its heart, successive generations have needed to travel further to weaken it sufficiently before any attack is attempted. The most potent users of the trods are those who begin their journey within an area claimed by [[The Vallorn|the vallorn]], and then travel as far away as possible using the trods. Only the [[Navarr]] do this on anything approaching a regular basis.
Stridings routinely move from [[Trod|trod]] to [[Trod|trod]], to ensure as much of [[The Vallorn|the vallorn]]'s life-force is depleted before they attempt the dangerous journey back towards the [[Vallorn|vallorn]].
At the fall of Terunael the unstoppable advance of the [[Imperial Orcs]] foe made this task virtually impossible. The founding of [[The Empire|the Empire]] was the beginning of a sea-change in the [[Navarr]] ability to [[Fight|fight]] [[The Vallorn|the vallorn]].
In addition the land near a trod is often noticeably fertile and the crops on land through which a trod passes seems much less prone to disease.
New trods can be created; however, it takes a great [[Ritual|ritual]] and no new trods have been pioneered since 282 YE. With the recovery in 378YE of [[The Dance of Navarr and Thorn]] - a powerful ritual from pre-Imperial times - the Navarr once again have access to the potent tool necessary to create trods. The [[Ritual text|ritual text]] also laid out several of the theories behind the trods, how they worked and their ultimate effect. The [[Imperial Conclave]] agreed to place the ritual into [[Imperial lore]], ensuring that it would not be lost as long as [[The Empire|the Empire]] lasted.
## Benefits of the Trods
The trods provide a boon to transportation and travel within [[The Empire|the Empire]]. 
In addition, everyone moving along the trods helps contribute to their magical effect, but the Navarr stridings are the most significant, moving long distances in large numbers along the trods from season to season. [[Traders]] and other travelers do make use of the trods, but in smaller numbers and their movements are focused on their destination. The trods are circuitous so [[Traders|traders]] moving between cities of [[The League]] (for example) [[Will|will]] use a trod only as long as it takes them in the direction they wish to travel.
As a trod sees more traffic its effectiveness at drawing off the power of the [[Vallorn|vallorn]] increases - but only the Navarr make the effort to spread their movements out over many trods, rather than take the shortest route to their destination.
## Current Trods
* All Imperial controlled territories contain a working trod network
* The old trod networks in [[Feroz]] and [[Zenith]] are still working
* There are no trod networks in any other territories
At present every Imperial controlled [[Territory|territory]] has a trod network. In addition to these territories the trod networks in [[Zenith]] and [[Feroz]] remain active at this time. While it is possible for [[The Empire|the Empire]] to create a trod network outside the Empire's boundaries, there are no known networks outside the Empire at this time. To create a trod network elsewhere, the Empire would need access to a suitable ritual site in the territory to perform the ritual, or they would need to persuade whichever power controlled the territory to perform the ritual for them.
## Damaged Trods
As of the start of [[Winter]] 378YE, the trods in [[Reikos]] were seriously damaged by the actions of [[Druj]] magicians. Swift action by the Navarr allowed them to use a [[Regio]] associated with the Sign of Tamar to repair the trods during a battle there. The trods in [[Segura]] and [[Holberg]] also suffered damage under [[Barbarian|barbarian]] orc occupation, but were recently repaired by the combined efforts of the Navarr nation.
The trods in the [[Mournwold]] had suffered extensively due to neglect; during the Winter Solstice 381YE Navarr magicians rewove and repaired the damage. Also during the Winter of 381YE, a courageous band of Navarr accompanied by [[Freeborn]] allies made a dangerous sortie [[Into the woods|into the woods]] of [[Liathaven]], and performed the Dance of Navarr and [[Thorn]], repairing the tattered trods surrounding [[The Vallorn|the vallorn]] there. Unfortunately, this repair was comparatively short lived. The [[Liathaven]] trods were again sundered in the run up to the [[Autumn]] Equinox 382YE, torn apart by unknown means. During the Winter Solstice 384YE, a major conjunction of the [[Sentinel Gate]] allowed the Navarr to make use of [[Broker]]'s Wynd - a potent [[Spring]] [[Regio|regio]] in the now [[Jotun]]-controlled territory. In addition to unleashing the [[Thunderous Tread of the Trees]], they were able to restore the trods and reconnect [[Liathaven]] to the network - at least for now.
The trods in [[Spiral]] had severely deteriorated due to long-term [[Barbarian|barbarian]] dominance of that territory, and were in need of repair. During the Spring Equinox 382YE, following the conquest of the territory by the [[Imperial armies]], the Navarr were able to completely restore the [[Spiral]] trods - albeit in new places most likely due to certain subtle shifts in the terrain (such as the destruction of certain forests, and perhaps the awakening of the [[Black Plateau]]). The trods suffered no deterioration under the [[Grendel]] occupation, probably due to the fact they were walked and maintained during the détente attendant on the dominion of Salt Lord Kaliact.
## New Trods
In the past few years, the Navarr have been working to actively expand the trod network. In [[Summer]] 382YE, in a rare example of cooperation with the orcs of [[Otkodov]], the Navarr came together with a [[Thule|thule]] warlock-[[General|general]] to channel the power of [[The Dance of Navarr and Thorn]] into distant Sküld. For the first time ever, the [[Vallorn|vallorn]] surrounding the ancient Terunael city of Emrys was made part of the network. The Navarr have had limited access to the territory to actually ''walk'' those trods - the [[Thule]] do not encourage visitors - but it is still a major success for the nation.
In Autumn 382YE, the Voice of the Quiet [[Forest]] were able to expand the network to cover the newly conquered territory of [[Ossium]] - once part of [[The Mallum]] but now part of [[Varushka]]. The trod network now covers a greater area than ever before; a situation that may go some way to explaining both the recent rise of the Heirs of Terunael and the [[Opportunities|opportunities]] to free Westwood in [[Liathaven]] and Dark Ranging in [[Brocéliande]].
## Other Territories
[[The Barrens]], never having been Imperial territory, have never had a proper trod network - rumours exist of a few tenuous paths that may have been created or used by the Navarr in historical times, but there is little sign of them today.
The magical researchers at the Towers of Maykop in [[Axos]] are believed to have a copy of The Dance of Navarr and [[Thorn]] given to them by [[The Conclave|the Conclave]] at the behest of Navarr vates. They ''could'' use this ritual to create a trod network of their own around the massive vallorn that lies at the heart of their nation, but so far they have shown no inclination to do so.
## Further Reading
* [[The Dance of Navarr and Thorn]]
* Trods, Roads, and Ox-carts
* [[Woven as a weapon]] - Autumn 383YE Wind of Fortune concerning an [[Appraisal]] to see how extensive roadbuilding might effect the trods