---
revision_id: 101551
revision_date: 2023-06-03T14:00:11Z
categories:
- Winds of Fortune
- 385YE Spring
- Recent History
aliases:
- Round_here
---



## Overview
After a long Winter full of [[Children in bloom|Spring magic]] and other strangenesses, the Spring Equinox is upon us. The rich and the powerful gather at [[Anvil]], to chart the course of the Empire. Urizen spires and guild of the League, Freeborn paradors and Imperial Orc legions, all come to [[Anvil]] to spend a long weekend of good food, good company. and spirited argument. Where the wealthy go, there also go the people who seek their money or their patronage, and the roads of [[Casinea]] are busy with merchants, traders, and peddlers of all kinds.

This season visitors include: members of a Tamazi family wanting to spend time with the Imperial Orcs; heralds of Janon keen to speak to people about passion; Axou traders in recreational concoctions; Sarcophan Delves cursed item merchants; and the Friends of Eduardo Boschetto, who plan to attend a performance in honour of their late patron and wish to speak about matters relating to exemplars and ambition. There's also a round-up of affairs at the Bourse, both the [[ilium]] seats that will be auctioned, and a number of other titles that will be assigned via the [[Tally of the Votes]].

## With Sceptre, Rod & Stave
* A group of [[Tired_of_sleeping#The_Tamazi|Tamazi]] will visit Anvil at 18:00 on Saturday evening
* The ritualists are looking to deepen their understanding of [[Worth]] and to discuss ritual magic
* A Tamazi [[Tired_of_sleeping#Bonecarvers|bonecarver]] may also venture into Anvil - but their specific intentions are unknown
The [[Tired_of_sleeping#The_Tamazi|Tamazi]] - the former  [[orc]] slaves of the teeming Citadels of [[Axos]] - have vigorously embraced the opportunities offered by Imperial citizenship. Though they have not all joined the Imperial Orcs nation, more seek out the egregore bond each month. It appears to be primarily the elders of the clan, especially the [[Tired_of_sleeping#Bonecarvers|bonecarvers]], who have chosen to remain apart.  Living almost exclusively in [[Skarsind#Gildenheim|Gildenheim]], the Tamazi have been industrious in raising long halls of brick and pine to house their kin in close proximity. They have been busy too in acquiring [[Game_items#Mana_Crystals|crystal mana]] to employ in working a form of ritual magic that [[Imperial_Orcs|Imperial Orc]] neighbours note as being far more subdued than their own tradition - akin to a form of [[dramaturgy]] that uses the careful retelling of ancestral tales.

With the summit approaching a small group of the Tamazi - a single family of ritualists and an elder bonecarver - have taken to Anvil with the intent to speak with the heroes of their nation. By all accounts they're particularly interested to get a better understanding of what the Imperial Orcs mean by [[Worth]] - a concept that doesn't really exist within their own traditions. They're expected to arrive at Anvil around six o'clock Saturday evening, and will likely be seeking the Imperial Orcs camp when they arrive.

## The Spark That Burns The World
* Heralds of [[Janon]] will visit Anvil at 13:00 on Saturday
* They wish to meet with passionate individuals to discuss the Empire's current course and how it may further commit to its Virtuous actions
* They have also asked for certain named individuals to meet with them, although they have failed to explain exactly why
The Empire's relationship with [[Janon|The Shadowed Flame]] has always been a little tempestuous, as befits such a creature. Despite some [[Smash_it_up|recent tensions]] the notoriously mercurial [[eternal]] seems to have decided that the Empire is once again on its good side. A herald with fire dancing under its skin has visited Anvil some days before the summit to pass on a message in the form of a passionate song that it sings in four-part harmony with itself. The gist, once interpreted by the attending civil servants, is that Janon is very pleased with the Empire's absolute commitment to the annihilation of slavery and the destruction of the Druj. The Empire's refusal of compromise and embrace of absolute ideological fervour is music to the ''Night Sword's'' ears.

Filtered from the lyrical flourishes are a few details. A herald or heralds called the ''Flame Of Virtue'' intend to come to the Hall of Worlds at one in the afternoon on the Saturday of the Spring Summit. They then intend to adjourn to somewhere with refreshments, somewhere conducive to in-depth conversation. They would quite like to speak to Kahendrin Wordsmith, Dame Aurum de Castellan, Rafael Barossa and Aracelis i Erigo, all of whom Janon believes are great spokespeople for Passion in the Empire. They would also like to speak to representatives of the Imperial Orcs who can discuss their nation's passionate quest to end slavery. When the messenger herald is asked if anyone else can attend, the question is waved away. If people really, really care about speaking to Janon's representatives, of course they can show up! People who don't care won't bother, and can be safely ignored.

The civil service reports with some regret that they were unable to get the herald to disclose any more details about what Janon actually wants before they left. Hopefully those citizens who meet the Flame Of Virtue can get more information from them.

## There Are Drugs Again
* Axou merchants Evander and Associates will set up shop outside the Forge from 13:00 on Saturday
* They intend to stay until they have sold out of their unusual concoctions
* Anyone who ordered something special from them is welcome to seek them out to place further orders
They're back! They have drugs! ''Evander and Associates'' are the group of Axou traders hailing from the Tunnels of Kaban in western [[Axos]] who appear to be making money hand-over-fist from Imperial pleasure seekers intrigued by the novelty of the goods they sell. Despite the ongoing tensions between the Empire and their nation, they show no signs of wanting to lose access to the lucrative market for their recreational narcotics fascinating herbal preparations. As before, they plan to sell their wares, and negotiate orders with anyone interested in buying from them in bulk. The merchants plan to set up shop outside [[Anvil#The Forge|The Forge]] at around one in the afternoon on Saturday, and stay until they have sold all their produce. 

While they've been a fixture at summits for a while now, not everyone welcomes their presence. A small but vocal group of [[the Marches|Marcher]] traders who may be associated with the [[market town]] of [[Upwold#Ashbrook|Sweetroot]] in [[Upwold]] have been grumbling that people buying ''foreign muck'' when there are much better ''homegrown'' narcotics for sale shows a lack of [[Pride]] in the Empire. There's also the fact that Gaelen Embercast, the [[Cardinal of Vigilance]], was worried enough about these concoctions to [[384YE_Autumn_Equinox_Synod_judgements#Judgement_163|direct]] the [[Silent Bell (Sodality)|Silent Bell]] to investigate them at the Autumn Equinox. Others point out that the [[Imperial Conclave]] discussed whether at least one of their preparations - the infamous Axou ''bone dust'' liao-substitute - needed to be [[interdiction|interdicted]] or not and by all accounts [[384YE_Winter_Solstice_Conclave_sessions#Interdiction:_Potion_of_Bone_Dust|that debate]] proved inconclusive. If anything, it has fuelled interest in some quarters for purchasing the substance so that people can see  for themselves what all the fuss is about. "''Only fools accept hearsay as truth,''" after all.

## A Cursed Demand Means Accursed Supply
* Traders of cursed artifacts from the Sarcophan Delves are making another visit to Anvil
* The Alders-Baart family representatives aim to arrive at the Hub shortly after 17:00 on Saturday afternoon.
From drugs to relics bearing horrible, horrible curses. Representatives of the Alders-Baart family are due to make their third visit to Anvil, bringing with them more relics dredged from the swamps. There's some scuttlebutt that they have started actually buying dreadfully cursed items from other merchants keen to divest themselves of dangerous objects, just so they have plenty of merchandise for their Imperial collectors. Following their visits at the [[Gorgeous#A_Lucrative_Trade_in_Horribly_Cursed_Curios|Winter Solstice]] and [[The_long_bench#Accurs.C3.A8d_Curios|Autumn Equinox]] last year, they have apparently been banned from a number of inns and wayhouses along the route between [[Necropolis#Crown's Quay|Crown's Quay]] and Anvil due to the misfortunate events that seem to follow in their wake. Expect them to arrive at Anvil around five in the evening on the Saturday of the summit. They are planning to come to the Hub, as they have done on their last two visits, to the trepidation of some of the civil servants working there.

## Blade of Rhyv
* A small group of Yerende orcs are travelling south from Skarsind
* They are expected to reach Anvil around 18:00 on Saturday, give or take
Since leaving [[Ossium]] at the Empire's invitation, the [[Hard_times_come_again_no_more#The_Yerende|Yerende]] [[orc|orcs]] have settled in [[Skarsind#Solvihill|Solvihill]] and largely kept themselves to themselves. After generations of keeping secrets from the [[Druj]], they are slow to trust, but if [[All_too_well#Cold_Alpine_Soil_.28Yerende.29|recent events]] are anything to go by their reticence may be thawing just a little. They stay on the few hundred acres of farmland they've moved onto, in a quiet valley north of the town, cultivating [[Realmsroot|orcsroot]] and other herbs. While none have thus far become [[Imperial Orcs]], they are civil when encountered on the road, but they're hardly ever seen on the road at all.

Recently, however, news has come of a  few Yerende heading east on the [[Temeschwar]] [[trods|trod]], apparently intending to travel to [[Anvil]]. They're still unused to being around large numbers of humans, but they have maintained a quiet demeanour, politely rebuffing questions apart from to confirm that they are hoping to visit the Imperial Orc "enclave at the heart of the Empire."  There is one exception noted by their fellow travellers; on witnessing an Imperial Orc [[bonesetter]] wearing the [[Rhyv|Rune of Blood]] stopping to tend to a young Dawnish woman who had fractured her leg in a fall, they became quite animated and asked a number of probing questions about the rune, and the orc's profession as a [[Surgical skills#Physick|physick]]. They are expected to arrive at Anvil around six in the evening on Saturday.

## Abigail and Theodora
* Abigail Ashill and Theodora Ashill von Holberg are visiting anvil to discuss Kleist's Winter Gardens at 16:00 on Saturday
''Abigail Ashill''  and her spouse ''Theodora Ashill von Holberg''  [[In_the_garden_of_defiance#Stones_on_the_Duelling_Fields|proposed a plan]] over a year ago to place protective [[The_Marches_hearth_magic#Chalk_Figures_and_Standing_Stones|menhirs]] on the cursed Duelling Grounds of [[Holberg#Holmauer_Park|Holmauer Park]]. At the Winter Solstice, Bernhard Kleist Von Ennerlund, [[Bearer of an Imperial Wayleave]] sought to [[Construct Kleist's Winter Gardens|put those plans into practice]]. Unfortunately, due to a series of miscommunications and misunderstandings, Bernhard has specified that custodianship of Kleist's Winter Gardens would be "''appointed annually by Imperial Bourse Auction... Auctioning it brings coin into the Senate budget. We support our Empire because we are League, and for the benefit of our beloved city Holberg''." It appears that Theodora and her spouse intended their protections to be used for the benefit of Holberg and the League in a more literal sense - and so the project has stalled. Following further discussion, they have announced they plan to come to Anvil to discuss the misunderstanding with Bernhard and see  what resolution can be reached. They're expected to arrive at the Hub at around four in the afternoon on Saturday, and hope to meet von Ennerlund there. 
Yes he was terrible producer, awful director, and his performances were a endeavour in overacting. But we all got our big breaks because of him. He lived his dream of owning his own theatre, and writing and performing his own plays, and he never let his lack of ability or talent stop him from trying. He helped so many people get a start in the theatre industry and many went on to greater things. I don't think Ambition is about ability, skill, or talent, but it's about striving to achieve your dreams and your goals and aiding others to do the same as well.

## The Friends of Eduardo Boschetto
* The Friends of Eduardo Boschetto are visiting Anvil to attend a performance of the beloved theatre owner's works at the Peacock's Tale Theatre
* They also wish to speak to the Cardinal of Ambition about having their patron recognised as an exemplar of Ambition
* They're expected to arrive around 19:00 on Saturday
The late Eduardo Boschetto di Tassato Regario was an infamous Theatre owner and producer in Tassato, famed for his awful plays and productions. What he lacked any talent or ability, he made up for it with boundless enthusiasm and passion for the theatre. As the famous impresario ''Mario Hartensio di Tassato Mestra'' once quipped, "''In this business, you can make up for almost everything with a big heart, a big smile, and a big pouch of money.''" Eduardo's passing last year was been mourned by many within the theatre industry in Tassato, although the theatrical world being what it is, this grief has been largely overshadowed by the recent demise of the thespian ''Cosmo'' (an actor so egotistical they dropped the appellation "von Sarvos" because they felt it wasn't needed, who was as famous for the aggressive militancy of their fans as for their actual acting ability). 

Regardless, the ''Friends of Eduardo Boschetto'' have engaged Eurybia Melampus de Tassata of the ''Peacock's Tale Theatre'' to stage an adaptation of the would-be playwright's work in honour of his passing. Some of the Friends intend to attend the performance, obviously, but they also have other business. Some of them are quoting a [[statement of principle]] [[384YE_Spring_Equinox_Synod_judgements#Judgement_137|raised last year]] by Alessio Sognatore which received some support in the League National Assembly. As a consequence of this, they are interested in speaking to Viviane de Coeurdefer (or someone speaking on her behalf) to discuss the [[recognition]] of a man who supported so many others to prosper in the arts. 

Participation: Characters associated with the theatre are encouraged to make up their own stories about Eduardo Boschetto di Tassato Regario if they wish. The larger-than-life figure was relentless in encouraging people - even people with no talent - to embrace the life of the stage. He often used money or connections to help people get their "big break." his own productions, however, were often marked by almost farcical misadventure such as a performance of his self-penned adaptation of ''The Sail of Sarvos'' which saw the entire theatre flooded due to some overenthusiastic special effects, or the universally panned ''Mallum in Winter'' which saw so many actors on stage during a climactic battle scene that the entire stage collapsed sending over two-dozen thespians to the hospital with broken bones.

## At the Bourse
OOC Note: For those interested, the "Imperial Elections" entry for each previous event found on the  [[recent history]] page gives an indication of how much a Bourse seat was auctioned for last time it was appointed, and also how many votes won a seat appointed via the Tally of the Votes.
### Imperial Auction
* The Public Auction takes place at two in the afternoon on Saturday at the Senate Building
The remaining Imperial [[ilium]] seat - [[Syrene's Wisdom]]  - will be auctioned during the Spring Equinox. Any Imperial citizen can hold such a title, if they can raise sufficient capital. (OOC Note: Every Bourse seat has a page on the wiki that includes details of how much they were auctioned for during previous events).

The [[Regario Dossier]] and the [[Master of the Imperial Mint]] will also be auctioned, although both are [[the League|League]] national positions, meaning only League citizens may bid for, or hold, these titles. Once the Master of the Mint is appointed, Auditor of the Imperial Treasury Gerard La Salle will arrange an appointment to discuss Imperial finances with them, and once the Regario Dossier is appointed, Marta Vaskovich Kovar will deliver their annual report.

This season also sees the auction of two titles that do not provide Bourse seats, but still come with lucrative benefits. The [[Seer of the Spiral Sword]] title grants custodianship of the only Imperial [[runeforge]], which allows the unique ability to develop new [[magic items]]. There is also the title of [[Kruidenkenner Trademaster]], which grants control of the [[Kruidenkenner Trademaster#The_Kruidenkenner_Magazijn|Kruidenkenner Magazijn]] and the ability to purchase large amounts of [[herbs]] from the [[Sarcophan Delves]].

Both [[Bearer of an Imperial Wayleave]] titles - special [[Imperial title|Imperial titles]] that allow the holder to [[commission]] a [[sinecure]], [[ministry]], or [[great work]] before the end of the Equinox - will be offered for auction. The [[Speaker for the Senate|Speakers Office]] remind citizens that that their door is always open to anyone unfamiliar with how the Senate rules on [[commission|commissioning]] work who wants advice on what kind of [[Commission#Necessary_Details|necessary details]] are needed to maximise the chances of the process going smoothly. Outside of Senate sessions, they are generally found at the Civil Service Hub, as with most other civil servants.

The [[Arbiter_of_the_Rogue_Declaration#Rogue_Declaration|rogue declaration]] will be auctioned for crystal mana. The [[Arbiter of the Rogue Declaration]] gains authority to raise a single [[declaration]] of their choice to the [[Conclave_session#Setting_the_Agenda|Conclave agenda]] for the Saturday evening session. Civil Servants will be able to advise whoever purchases the title as to how they can use it, but remind citizens it is important to remember that the Arbiter must present their declaration themselves, and that it is an [[Imperial title]] - it cannot be held by someone who already has an Imperial title (nor can someone who already has an Imperial title serve as a [[proxy]]).

The public auction will also see the [[Prosperity]] dose of [[liao#True Liao|true liao]] auctioned, with all funds raised going to the [[Imperial Synod]] [[rewarding|virtue fund]].

### Tally of the Votes
* The tally of the votes begins on Saturday morning and closes on Saturday afternoon
* Any eligible citizen can cast their vote by finding an Agent of the Bourse in the civil service Hub near the centre of the Anvil
In addition to the Imperial positions offered for public auction, there are a number of national positions that are available to be appointed during the coming Summit. In each case, any citizen who controls an appropriate [[Resource#Personal_Resource|personal resource]] is eligible to cast their vote for their preferred candidate. Voting opens on Saturday morning and closes Saturday afternoon around 4pm, shortly after the [[Auction of the Seats]] is completed.

Four national Bourse seats providing [[ilium]] are due to be appointed this season. The [[Regario Dossier]] has already been mentioned (it is auctioned to League citizens). The other three are: 
* The [[Gift of the Dwindling Star]] is appointed by [[Varushka|Varushkan]] owners of [[mine|mines]] and [[forest|forests]]
* The [[Steel Fist]] is appointed by [[Imperial Orcs|Imperial Orc]] [[military unit]] commanders who have supported [[Imperial army|Imperial armies]] in the last year.
* The new [[Cerevado Nets]] are appointed by [[The Brass Coast|Freeborn]] [[fleet]] owners. The new resource represents a [[Cerevado_Nets#The_Resource|bold decision]] to steal the old [[Scorrero Nets]] from out under the nose of the [[Grendel]] governor of [[Feroz]], and there is a lot of interest in who will be the first person to oversee them.

In addition to the Bourse seats, this spring will see the appointment of a number of other titles.
* [[Imperial Orcs]] will determine the new holder of the [[Bonesetter of Torfast Trading Post]], the [[Steward of the Mines of Gulhule]], and the [[Preceptor of the Skarsind College of Warcasting|Preceptor]]. Appointment is determined by Imperial Orcs who control a [[military unit]], and the number of votes they receive depends not only on the size of the unit but on how many times it has supported an [[Imperial army]] in the last year. 
* [[The League|League]] [[business]] owners will be able to appoint the [[Custodian of the Assayer's Guild]] (able to buy large amounts of metal from League and Varushkan miners).
* [[Varushka|Varushkan]] [[mine]] and [[forest]] owners have a say in who will become [[Custodian of Ivarsgard Docks]] (buying herbs from Sarcophan), and will also be appointing the first  [[Merchant Boyar of the Bittershore]] (buying large amounts of metals and forest resources from the docks at Kostjyas Respite).
* [[Highguard]] [[congregation]] leaders will determine who becomes [[Bursar of the House of Spirits]], and gains the ability to purchase ilium from virtuous citizens
* [[Urizen]] citizens who own [[mana site|mana sites]] will appoint the [[Quaymaster of the Elosian Docks]], who purchases [[white granite]] from [[Axos|Axou]] traders.
* The [[The Brass Coast|Freeborn]] [[fleet]] owners will have the chance to appoint the first [[Marracossa Sendito]] (able to buy unique magic items from the Marracossan exiles), as well as the [[Vizier of the Incarnadine Satchel]] (whose main "power" since the occupation of Feroz is to be custodian of the missing Incarnadine Satchel).
* The [[Wintermark]] [[military unit]] owners will be able to appoint the [[Talon of Kauppahall]], a merchant able to purchase both ilium and white granite from the virtuous.
In each case, any Imperial citizen of the appropriate nation can be appointed to hold the title - not just those eligible to vote.