[[The Vallorn]] is a wide spanning threat to the entire Empire and the lands beyond our borders. It is a geographical feature and like any wood or marshland can hold dangerous wildlife. It can spread or be cut back with time and considerable effort. Unlike other geographical features however it is infused with [[Spring magic]] making the creatures and plants within far deadlier.

Owing to the nature of [[Spring]] [[Magic|magic]] creatures within a [[Vallorn]] are far bigger and more vicious. Plants within the area produce spores and dust known as a [[Vallorn]] miasma, this miasma corrupts plantlife, animals and people who enter into it. It is deadly and any who fall within a Vallorn risk their bodies becomingpuppeted by writhing vines, kept on the verge of life and death, their soul trapped.

The creatures of [[The Vallorn|the Vallorn]] are known as vallornspawn and are known to be remarkably resilient, as it is [[The Way|the way]] of [[Spring magic]] to [[Heal|heal]] and to endure. There are eight Vallorn sites, four within [[The Empire|the Empire]], three in foreign and [[Barbarian|barbarian]] lands and the final one once rested in the heart of [[Miaren]] until it was defeated. Each of these eight Vallorn marks the site of an ancient Terunael city where the phenomena began.

In your hands you hold the Researchers Edition of 'On the Nature of The Vallorn' The first section of the book focuses on compiled and concise information whilst the latter provides copies of the many documents referenced. It is important to keep and spread copies of important information such as these documents lest they be lost to time and destruction once more. The compilation of these [[Materials|materials]] could not have been achieved without the aid of exceptional academics. Where possible I have credited the researchers responsible for the supporting [[Materials|materials]] in this book but I would also like to thank all scholars who work to uncover the truths of our lost past, especially that relating to Terunael and the Vallorn.