Before [[The Empire|the Empire]] as we know it today several nations rose and fell, but arguably the widest spanning empire was that of Terunael. Functioning somewhat like [[The League|the League]] of today the hearts of Terunael were its cities. Unlike [[The League|the League]] however the ancient society favoured its magicians with the people of power being of [[Mage|mage]] families. Every city was ruled by a council. From evidence we have so far it seems these councils were formed of six members; two [[Magisters|magisters]] (great images), two generals (those who lead through [[Magic|magic]] and military might) and two artisans (for Terunael seemed to see the creation of [[Magical Items|magical items]] as important)

Many facts we have uncovered about the cities tell us of how reliant the society was upon their magics. Emrys, a northern city in cold climates constructed a magical sun to aid in their survival and comfort for example.

While they worked together each city maintained some independence and would engage with the people around them in different ways. The people of one city may find the practices of another as backwards. For example, the people of southern cities found some of the mages of Hacynian (the city that stood where [[Hercynia]] is today) learning [[Blood magic|blood magic]] from the local Ushkans as barbaric.

We know of eight major cities of the Terunael empire who became instrumental in the creation of [[The Vallorn|the Vallorn]]. Terrunel which sat in what we know today as [[Brocéliande]], Seren in [[Miaren]], Liath ([[Liathaven]]), Emrys in Oktodov, Béantal Dol in [[The Mallum]], Tharunind ([[Therunin]]), Hacynian ([[Hercynia]]) and Cavan in [[Axos]].

The Terunael empire was great and achieved many impressive feats, both good and bad. We know that their constructions were grand and impressive, the Axou of today credit the influence of Terunael for how tall their cities are now and that it was from this ancient civilisation that their people learned to build aqueducts. However, the people of [[Axos]] and those of Terunael were far from friendly. Terunael invaded the lands of [[Axos]], waged [[War|war]] and eventually claimed lands and took tribute from the Axou by threatening to use their powerful [[Spring]] magics to destroy the bodies of the revered ancestors of [[Axos]]. If this was not concerning enough we also know that the great empire of Terunael was built on the backs of slaves. We don't know how extensive their use of slaves was in each city but we know for certain that they were kept and used for a variety of things. [[Navarr]] herself was a slave but also educated in the was of Spring, implying that perhaps slaves were sometimes used as a source of additional power in larger [[Rituals|rituals]]. Or perhaps they were used to cast smaller magics that those of higher station saw as beneath them.

At the height of Terunael many of [[The Empire|the empire]] saw it as not [[Worth|worth]] their time aiding those of neighbouring nations. When those outside their lands were attacked by [[Barbarian|barbarian]] orcs they ignored [[Calls|calls]] for aid. This and their arrogance may be why they weren't prepared for the number of invaders that they faced when the orcs turned their eyes to the Terunael cities. [[Barbarians]] attacked in far larger numbers than they initially expected, hitting the defences of the cities hard. When these attacks struck against the walls of the cities they once again looked to their [[Magic|magic]] to save them.

Between the eight major cities we know of they coordinated a Great [[Ritual]], also known as the [[Great work|Great Work]], something that would destroy their enemies and protect their cities. We do not know the exact wording of this ritual but we do know that ritual [[Magic|magic]] does not go awry. It can achieve your aims in unexpected ways however and in enacting their ritual all eight cities were overrun with abundant growth that devoured citizen and invader alike. This unwise action was made all the worse as the ritual was made permanent using [[Ilium|ilium]] Terunael seized from [[Urizen]].

It is this permenance that has lead to the [[Vallorn]] as we know it today. An area that was referred to as a 'super [[Regio|regio]]' of sorts by the [[Archmage]] Rhonwen who was instrumental in the destruction of [[The Vallorn|the Vallorn]] in [[Miaren]]. It is an area of overwhelming [[Spring magic]] that has stood since the fall of Terunael.

Not all citizens stayed to help with defending the cities and the ritual(s) that entailed. The people of Terunael had many plans to save themselves. Some sought out their neighbours and turned to them for mercy. The towers and [[Spires|spires]] of [[Axos]] and [[Urizen]] in particular saw refugees from both the orcs and the effect of the great ritual. These weren't the only safe havens however, one planned point of evacuation were the waterfalls of Seren, named at this time [[Sanctuary]] Falls (later renamed Rhonwen's Fall) and there are documentations of at least one more sanctuary but where this was and whether the refugees made it there is unclear. Some scholars believe it may be located somewhere in the [[Bay of Catazar]].