---
IgnoreLinking: False
Tags: ['Eternals']
Title: Eleonaris
draft: False
revision_date: 2023-07-10 16:05:18+00:00
revision_id: 103035
---

## [[Eternal]] of [[Summer]]
### Sobriquets
[[Eleonaris]] has many titles; she is the ''Queen of [[The Fields of Glory|the Fields of Glory]]'', the ''Lady of Pennants'', the ''Commander of the Golden Armies'', the ''Sovereign in Scarlet and Gold'' and ''The Lion of Summer''. 
She has many other names besides; bards and [[Troubadours|troubadours]] in her court and beyond compete to glorify her name with flattering titles. She smiles indulgently, but their adoration rarely turns her head.
### Appearance
The ''Queen of the Fields of [[Glory]]'' appears as a powerful woman in gold and red. She has a golden mane reminiscent of a lion, and her skin is marked with swirling patterns that are said to [[Spiral|spiral]] outwards from her heart. When she is calm these markings are golden, but when she is in a wrathful aspect or going to [[War|war]], they are deep crimson.
She may be attired in a flowing gown or clad head-to-toe in plate harness. Usually she appears in clothing and armour reminiscent of [[The Brass Coast]], although sometimes she appears as a resplendent Dawnish noble. Very occasionally she may appear in garb that echoes the leaders or nobles of other warrior societies.
[[Eleonaris]] is almost never alone; she is generally accompanied by knights, nobles, courtiers, soldiers and servants. Some of these are lesser Eternals, others seem to be more akin to magical creatures in the form of men. Like their mistress, they tend to be fierce and proud. Most bear banners, pennants, tabards or surcotes bearing some sort of image of a golden lion on a red [[Background|background]].
### Concerns
[[Eleonaris]] seems to be the ruler of a great swathe of the Summer [[Realm]] called [[The Fields of Glory|the Fields of Glory]]. She also claims parts of the [[Forest]] of Arden, and is known to contend with other Eternals for dominance of other territories. She is said to have a number of lesser Eternals who serve her as vassals - lords and ladies and knights of her court, each of which is responsible for a demesne within her greater [[Realm]]. Whether this is 'real' or not is never clear - it is possible that these Eternals simply play at being a feudal court for their own amusement, but if so they take their game so seriously that ignoring it can have serious repercussions.
The ''Commander in Crimson and Gold'' exemplifies ideas of nobility, civility, and, conquest. Her armies, resplendent in gold-and-red, [[Fight|fight]] beneath her leonine pennant in great tourneys, and in open warfare with the armies of other Summer Eternals. She seems to have a great deal of time for those who have earned the respect they are given through [[War|war]] or politics.
As long as records have existed, the ''Lady of Pennants'' is closely associated with the [[Eternal|eternal]] [[Jaheris]]. He is sometimes her rival, and sometimes her ally. In some stories he is her father who she overthrew to claim her [[Throne|throne]], in others he is her son who strives to usurp his mothers' seat. Sometimes it seems he is her beloved consort, but he always plots against her and is cast down. Sometimes he is her brother, who seeks to take her throne by force. In recent years, their relationship appears to have undergone a fundamental shift, and [[Jaheris]] has quit the Fields of [[Glory]] for the [[Forest]] of Arden, which he now rules as his own [[Realm|realm]].
The Hawk Lord, [[Hayaak]], driven from the [[Forest]] of Arden by [[Jaheris]] has sought [[Sanctuary|sanctuary]] on [[The Fields of Glory|the Fields of Glory]] where he no-doubt plans his triumphant return to his former demesne. A shadow of his former self, the exact nature of the relationship between the two eternals is unclear but the presence of a second [[Eternal|eternal]] - even one diminished by exile - on the Fields of [[Glory]] must surely be resulting in some [[Confusion|confusion]].
She is strongly associated with the [[Runes|runes]] [[Feresh]] and [[Tykonus]].
During Summer Solstice 378YE, [[Eleonaris]] was made subject to the [[Declaration]] of Enmity by the [[Imperial Conclave]]. This status continued until [[Winter]] 378YE when the [[Declaration]] of Reconciliation was used to restore her to neutrality, primarily due to the influence of Corvus of the [[Spire]] of the Auric Horizon, [[Archmage of Summer]].
### Boons
Magicians consort with [[Eleonaris]] because she is an exemplar of the ideas of [[War|war]] and leadership. She can offer some of her warriors to [[Fight|fight]] in mortal [[Battles|battles]], as well as giving boons that relate to command, majesty and the arts of [[War|war]]. She has a great love of banners, pennants, heraldry, livery and the like and her weavers are known to spin [[Enchanted|enchanted]] threads and dyes that can help a mortal artisan or [[Weaver|weaver]] create magical standards of great potence. She is known to love both [[Orichalcum|orichalcum]] and [[Iridescent gloaming|iridescent gloaming]], and gifts made with these [[Materials|materials]] are sure to get her attention.
Eleonaris offers boons related to battle, leadership and nobility; she does not appreciate the idea of raiding, or of small [[Bands|bands]] that [[Fight|fight]] for their own [[Glory|glory]] - or worse for pay. Those who seek those kinds of boons would be better seeking the court of cold [[Cathan Canae]], the Queen of Ice.
The [[Ritual|ritual]] [[Knights of Glory]] draws directly on her power, and she has been known to provide occasional boons related to its performance.
During the Tourney of Sun and Ice of [[Autumn]] 381YE, Eleonaris was recognised as [[Eternal|eternal]] patron of the Icy Crag of the [[Eternal]] Sun, and laid claim to the [[Regio]] associated with the [[College of Magic]].
## Eleonaris and [[Jaheris]] in Empire culture
*[[The Lion and the Unicorn]] - Song about [[Jaheris]] and Eleonaris becoming well known, especially by those associated with the [[Summer Realm]]