---
revision_id: 105080
revision_date: 2023-08-28T22:00:55Z
Tags:
- Eternals
draft: false
Title: Siakha
---
## Eternal of Spring
### Sobriquets
[[Siakha]] is largely unfamiliar to Imperial magicians. Among the [[Asavean Archipelago|Asaveans]] she is also known as ''the Maelstrom'', ''the Empress of Sharks'', and ''Schiuma Sanguinosa.'' The [[Grendel]] [[Orc|orcs]] call her ''the Salt-born Devourer'' and ''Mother of Wrecks''. The [[Sarcophan Delves|Sarcophan]] call her ''the red squid'' and ''the maw of stone'' and she is treated with a combination of terror and awe.
### Appearance
Uncertain. It is believed that [[Siakha]] appears as an immense shark-like beast with crimson and black hide. All three of the nations known to have relations with [[Siakha]] also depict her as a churning maelstrom, whirlpool, or water spout that is simultaneously a gaping maw full of crushing, tearing teeth. The Grendel claim that Siakha is present in any feeding frenzy of sharks - several of the nations that live on the Broken Shore allegedly claim that sharks are her favoured children.
### Concerns
Siakha is unknown in the Empire. Her disdain for law and lust for blood leave her with little time for the people of civilised nations. Even before she was placed under [[Amity and enmity|enmity]] by then Archmage of Spring Rosamund Holt in [[381YE Spring Equinox Conclave sessions#Saturday Session|Spring 381YE]] it was, and still is, unlikely she would ever seek any peaceful contact with representatives of the Empire. Much of what the Empire knows about her comes from discussions with Asavean, Sarcophan, and Grendel magicians. That said, there are rumours that certain [[The Brass Coast|Freeborn]] [[Corsair]] families that have hidden shrines dedicated to [[Religious Crimes#Idolatry|idolatrous]] worship of the Empress of Sharks - although there are no records of such shrines ever being uncovered.
Siakha embodies destructive forces, especially those associated with the sea and the sky. She is said to revel in hurricanes, typhoon, devastating storms, tidal waves, and whirlpools. She also encourages piracy - Grendel orcs who draw on the boons of Siakha are known to be especially bloodthirsty, offering sacrifices of blood and flesh to the sharks that they say symbolise her endless hunger. It seems odd that an eternal of the Spring realm seemingly encourages something as sophisticated as piracy; Imperial scholars tentatively theorise that it is an element of predation and domination combined with her obvious marine connections. Some of the land-based nations of the Broken Shore are said to receive her boons when they engage in land-based [[Military unit#Paid Work|raiding]] as well as piracy.
The eternal briefly enjoyed the [[Alignment#Neutrality|neutrality]] of the Conclave following an [[A murder of one#Mother of Wrecks|unexpected approach]] made on her behalf by a [[Grendel]] "priestess". Then-[[Archmage of Spring]] Ibiss Briarheart met with [[Three and three#Siakha .28Conjunction.29|Siakha's representatives]] during the Summer Solstice, and almost immediately [[385YE Summer Solstice Conclave sessions#Alignment : Siakha|reinstated the enmity]] dubbing the eternal a "baddy".
### Boons
Siakha offers boons related to water, piracy, raiding, and destructive qualities of sea and storm. Magicians that enjoy her favour are said to gain power over rituals such as [[Foam and Spittle of the Furious Sea]], [[Thunderous Deluge]], [[Merciless Wrath of the Reaver]], and [[Blood and Salt]]. Some foreign magicians report that Siakha also makes gifts of weapons to those who win her approval - brutal, savage weapons with supernatural ability to [[Calls#CLEAVE|rend flesh]], [[Calls#IMPALE|shatter bone]] and even occasionally [[Calls#SHATTER|splinter shields]].