---
revision_id: 107358
revision_date: 2024-01-26T11:34:26Z
categories:

aliases:
- Celestial_Sigil
---


### Description
A Celestial Sigil is a magical standard that is infused with the power of mana. Woven from soft wool, bleached with [[Materials#Beggars Lye|beggar's lye]], reinforced with [[Materials#Orichalcum|sungold]] and [[Materials#Weltsilver|moonsilver]], and carefully embroidered with fine silk threads imbued with [[Materials#Iridescent Gloaming|iridescent gloaming]], they often depict [[Astronomancy|astronomantic]] constellations. The banner pole is invariably of weirwood, often shod and bound with mithril, and embellished with [[Materials#Dragonbone|dragonbone]]. It is most popular with the [[Urizen]] (unsurprisingly), but warbands of [[Dawn|Dawnish]] witches are also known to favour the power of this magical standard. Some [[Varushka|Varushkans]] call it a ''Firebird Banner'', referencing both the constellation of [[the Phoenix]] (with which it is often adorned), and the way that the standard empowers magical healers to restore man additional warriors - or sear their enemies with devastating incantations.

The bearer of the standard can tap into a deep reserve of [[Magical_skills#Extra_Mana|extra mana]] allowing them to perform many more [[Spellcasting|incantations]] than they might otherwise - something not usually possible with a magical [[Magic_items#Talismans|talisman]]. Some banner bearers draw on the standard's magic to allow them to [[heal]] or [[empower]] their allies. More martially inclined banner bearers - especially Dawnish war-witches and [[Imperial Orcs|Imperial orc]] [[Imperial_Orcs_magical_traditions#Warcasters|warcasters]] prefer to fight with a Celestial Sigil in one hand and a rod in other (especially magical rods that further increase their magical prowess). By combining the power of a Celestial Sigil with items such as a [[Neophyte's Aid]], a [[Battlesmith's Panoply]], or an [[Ashen Mantle]], a martial magician can increase their reserves of personal power even further.

The most famous ''Celestial Sigil'' was carried into battle in pre-Imperial days by the [[Sentinel|sentinels]] of [[Urizen]].  A valuable [[Magic_items#Artefacts|artefact]], it served as a rallying point for [[Mage|mages]] and [[sentinel|sentinels]] of the [[Citadel Guard]] - perhaps most famously when some of them accompanied the ritualists supporting the nascent Empire in the final battle against [[Alderei the Fair]]. Historians record that it was one of the first banners to bear the beautiful image of [[the Phoenix]] that adorns many Urizeni banners and standards to this day. Sadly, the artefact was lost in 54YE during the [[Imperial_history#.2854_YE.29_Scouring_of_Redoubt|scouring of Redoubt]]. The standard was consumed in black flame by the will of the ''Ashenblood Knight'', a powerful servant of the eternal [[The_Thrice-cursed_Court#Surut|Surut]]. The exact circumstances of its destruction are unclear. Some historians claim the Ashenblood Knight was fighting for the [[orc|orcs]] and destroyed the sigil after defeating its bearer, Salome of Highwatch, in a duel. Others disagree and claim that Salome offered the standard as tribute to the [[The_Thrice-cursed_Court|Thrice-cursed Court]] to bind the Ashenblood Knight to her service for a time. Regardless, this powerful symbol of Urizen martial might was lost forever in the early years of the Empire. In the centuries since, however, many [[General|generals]] of the Citadel Guard have made a point of fighting under a Celestial Sigil, perceiving it as a powerful reminder of the victories of the past - and the cost of failure.

The Celestial Sigil is a symbol of magical power, and as such it often encourages its bearers to seek out and overcome other magicians. On the battlefield, this means the standard is favoured by regiments who have good reason to fight powerful sorcerous foes - although it does occasionally cause problems when the banner is carried in other places especially the [[Imperial Conclave]].

### Rules

* Effect: While wielding this standard you gain five additional personal mana
* Roleplaying Effect: This banner seems to vibrate under your fingers. While wielding it, you feel an urge to identify and defeat enemy magicians.
* Materials: Crafting a Celestial Sigil requires seven ingots of [[Materials#Orichalcum|orichalcum]], seven ingots of [[Materials#Weltsilver|weltsilver]], thirteen measures of [[Materials#Dragonbone|dragonbone]], eleven measures of [[Materials#Beggar's Lye|beggar's lye]], and twenty measures of [[Materials#Iridescent Gloaming|iridescent gloaming]]. It takes one month to make one of these items.