---
revision_id: 100439
revision_date: 2023-05-06T17:20:24Z
categories:
- Varushka
- Title
aliases:
- Keeper_of_Berislav's_Rest
---

## Overview
The Keeper of Berislav's Rest is an [[Imperial title]] awarded to a [[Varushka|Varushkan]] citizen. It is a national position appointed by majority vote of the Varushkan senators. The position is a [[sinecure]], requiring minimal responsibility but offering a regular income drawn from the profits generated by the people of the vale.

## Responsibilities
The Keeper of Berislav's Rest has no particular responsibilities; they simply receive a stipend of rings from the Vale of Berislav's Rest in Volodmartz. If the Vale were to be threatened in any way, it would be the responsibility of the Keeper to deal with those threats.

## Powers
### Income
The Keeper gains custodianship of a [[sinecure]]. They receive 1 throne, 2 crowns, and 16 rings each season from the vale.

## Appointment
The title is selected by unanimous decision of the [[Varushka|Varushkan]] [[senator|senators]]. If a unanimous decision cannot be reached, the title [[Appointments_by_the_Senate#National_Position|may be appointed]] by the [[Imperial Senate]] instead.

The title can be held by any Varushkan citizen. The Keeper has [[tenure]], and serves until they die or step down. They can be [[revocation|revoked]] by the [[Assembly#General_Assembly|General Assembly]], the Varushkan [[Assembly#The_National_Assemblies|National Assembly]], and by the [[Assembly#Assembly_of_the_Nine|Assembly of the Nine]].



