This section contains research into the ancient civilisation of Terunael.

Included in these pages are the following:

The [[Past Life Vision of Irada von Temeschwar|past life vision of Irada von Temeschwar]] who was the magister of a Terunael city. This account confirms the Terun use of slaves as well as their attitude to other civilisations (in this case the Feni)

The [[Past Life Vision of Iulian Shatterspire|past life vision of Iulian Shatterspire]] who was a councillor in the city of Emrys. His accounts detail the councillor's advising against The Great Work and how she escaped.

A fragment of a Terun document found in the Feverwater that details the attitude towards the Gwerin Morfa. It is also referenced in Iulian Shatterspire's past life vision.

The [[Past Life Vision of Father Drakov of the Vor'azi|past life vision of Father Drakov of the Vor'azi]] who was a Terunael magister. His vision centres on a council's trying to decide if it was the right time to cast The Great Ritual.

The Arc of Skuld is a ritual akin to Wither the Seed, it's a widespread Winter curse that could be used to blight the land and slow any Vallorn growth in a territory. The ritual text details how the people of Terunael travelled north and founded Emrys. It also documents Terunael attitudes and what happened when the meteors fell.

Research notes and visions from Mourning Hollow, an ancient battleground but also homes Terunael ruins. Investigation of the area once called the 'Temple of Phaleron' unearthed insights into a Terun building that survived the fall.

[[Historical Research Into Star|Historical Research into Star]] who was a Spring and Summer vate and travelling companion of Navarr and Thorn. While the results of the research is limited it gives some interesting insights.

[[Notes On The Expedition To Axos|Notes on the expedition to Axos]] that saw cooperation between the Axou and our historical researchers to learn about their historical interactions with the Terun and the nature of their Vallorn. This extensive document in three parts brought a lot of new information into the Empire.

[[Historical Research On Ghita's Veils|Historical Research on Ghita's Veils]] in Segura. This potent mana site holds structures of Terunael origin and hints towards the magical prowes of the Terun mages and ways in which they channelled mana.

Historical Research into the Sungold Pass. This is included here for its glimpses into a location homing Terunael ruins. In particular a mine warmed by magical means.

And finally, I have included some 'Advisor's Notes' on the topic of Terunael and the documents listed above.