---
{}
---

*Presented here is the initial [[Historical research]]. Since its initial publication the details have been edited and expanded. Included below the original document are the sections of the research that saw the most changes.*

**A collection of documents on Rhonwen's Fall, in [[Miaren]] Collated by Albus ThornSpire, 381YE**

The documents I have found are the most accurate that I can recover about Rhonwen's Fall, however, they do contradict themselves. The issue with looking at pre-[[Imperial history]] is that a lot of the writing is based upon conjecture. There are little writings remaining from that time and what we had were destroyed in the reign of Emperor Nicovarr.

I have tried to annotate where possible, although after my recent ordeals I apologise that I have not been as thorough as I would like to be under normal circumstances.

**Rhonwen and The [[The Vallorn]]**

In the Early years of [[The Empire]], with the [[Assistance]] of their new allies, the [[Navarr]] launched a major offensive into the territory surrounding the Terunael city known as Seren. A combination of the (relative) peace wrought by the nations that would become the Empire, followed by their unification, had allows the trods to expand more than at any time since their initial creation. Increased security and the protection of the [[Imperial Law]] allowed the Navarr Stridings to travel the trods in greater numbers than ever before in their history.

The time being right, the Navarr engaged on one of their most ambitious projects to date. Specifically, the attempt to reclaim an entire territory from the [[Vallorn]]. The central city of Seren was chosen because of its location. Since the [[Trod]] network was completed, Seren had benefitted the most from the slow leeching of The the vallorn's power and was judged to be ripe for liberation.

The vate Rhonwen helped to lay the groundwork fifteen years before the first major offensive. A quiet, introspective woman afflicted with profound deafness from birth, she nonetheless became an adept wielder of ritual [[Magic]] - and ArchArchmage of Winter on three occasions.

She put forWard a theory that the vallorn energies were nothing more than a massive, hitherto unknown, [[Regio]] of the spring [[Realm]]. Her theory was extremely radical - she theorized further that the problem was the relationship between this magical energy - this super-regio - and the plants and animals that lived inside it. She pointed to [[The Way]] that Winter regio were known to spontaneously coalesce around battlefields and burial grounds. While not all Winter regio occupied such locations, there was almost always a connection between the area where the regio occurred and the resonances of the realm it was connected to. Indeed, Eternals had been known to be capable of actively exploiting these connections for centuries, and several were known to offer boons relating to the creation of Regio (most especially [[Prospero]], [[Sadogua]], [[Sorin]], and Yaw'nagrah).

She believed that the anchoring effect of The the vallorn was tied to the fertility and vitality of the creatures in the area, just as it reinforced and heightened those qualities. Her plan was relatively simple - she and her coven would invoke the ritual known as [[Wither the Seed]] in Seren, provided an appropriate Regio could be located. In the end, Rhonwen prevailed upon one of the eternals of Winter believed to be either Sorin or possibly [[Kaela]] - for a boon relating to the temporary creation of a strong winter Regio in the heart of the area now known as Rhonwen's Fall. Her coven - the Silent Word - and a cadre of thorns managed to secure the area and evoke the regio. They performed the ritual, but were overwhelmed by Ettercaps and a veritable army of vallornspawn husks - some clearly dating back to the fall of Seren itself.

The ritual had the usual effect, but it is not clear how much benefit this was to the eventual campaign to reclaim Seren. Indeed, some historians point out that the ritual effects lasted for a further decade after the territory was reclaimed, and may have been responsible for the slow speed of the Navarr rebuilding there. Worse, it robbed the Navarr of a powerful and influential figure who might have helped them arrange the campaign against Seren earlier had she been around. Historians do agree that her ritual had an effect - the ettercaps were sluggish and slow to respond to the initial Imperial invasion of the territory, at the very least, allowing the human armies to liberate an additional region before they (and the other vallorn beasts) were fUlly roused to murderous fury.

**Sanctuary Falls**

Rhonwen's Fall was originally known as Sanctuary Falls and has been a key location in Miaren since the fall of the Terrunael Empire. When Seren fell, historical accounts suggest that it was at Sanctuary Falls where the majority of refugees went. Sanctuary Falls is built into cliffs behind the waterfalls of the Gancio River, and it is almost impossible to see the caves from the bottom of the cliffs. The path to the caves are narrow and winding and can be easily guarded (although easily blockaded too) and it is a defensible position that can be trapped or protected by archers. There are reports that more than once the pathway has been flooded to make entrance to the caves totally impassable.

It is well known that the cliffs around Sanctuary Falls contain intricate swirling designs that are thought to contain some [[Insight]] into the creation of the Trod network. There are many modern Navarr who believe that these were carved by their founders, Navarr and [[Thorn]], who travelled to Sanctuary Falls before the creation of the Trod network. There is no evidence, that this is the case however. There are some accounts from Terunael documents (what few we have) that many of the carvings were in place well before the fall of their Empire. There are also no reports that Navarr or Thorn travelled to Sanctuary Falls, although there are very few records from the time of Navarr to make it possible to know if this is true.

There are, however, documents that a powerful vate by the name of Star ^[It is unlikely that the Vate's name was Star - this is more likely an honourific based upon the meaning of Seren which seems to translate from laith to Star] travelled from Seren to Sanctuary Falls. It is believed that Star was the daughter of a powerful [[Magister]] (one of the ruling council of the Terunael cities) and when the city started to fall she was asked to take those she could (especially the younger citizens) to Sanctuary Falls to keep them safe from the Orcs who were attacking Miaren at the time.

What few documents there are about the history of Star tell of Rhonwen's Fall and it is believed that she carved several of the newer markings on the cliff faces during her time there. There Is archaeological evidence that both [[Druj]] and [[Jotun]] were prevalent in the area at the time, although from what we know of them at the moment it is unlikely that they were working together to invade Miaren. Although it is known that Star joined with Navarr upon their journeys and was instrumental in the using of magics to hold back the [[Barbarian]] Orcs, often by creating fortresses of living wood or to enVenom the weapons of all those who would [[Fight]] beside them,

There are records that Star returned to Sanctuary Falls several times and it is even thought that she died there, although any investigation into her life from the falls has been met with resistance from the Navarr over that time. It is unknown why, although it is more recently claimed that all records from her life have been lost.

Since the fall of Seren, then Sanctuary Falls has been used as a [[Steading]] or a place of sanctuary for Stridings in times of danger or over winter. It is thought that over the years the simple caves have been excavated and the steadings there have secret chambers and libraries that run back hundreds of years. There is a saying that "Sanctuary will keep you safe when the waters run red'^[There could be a more literally meaning of this staying referring to the literally running red of the water every 90 years.] which is an obvious reference to the Orcs slaughtering the people of Miaren and them taking sanctuary in the caves.

**The carvings on Rhonwen's Fall**

Looking at the carvings on sanctuary falls there seem to be twelve key points that are marked upon the cliffs, joined by a complex pattern of [[Spiral]] carvings.

Of these twelve points there are eight that are marked more deeply, with more complicated carvings between them. Although there are rumours that these were carved by Navarr and Thorn, they are of a variety of ages and only the most recent carvings seem to relate to the time at the fall of Terunael, the rest seem a lot older. It would be fair to surmise that there are older carvings that Navarr and Thorn used and deciphered to understand the magics and create the Trod network. ^[Other reports imply that it was Star that did the carving rather than Navarr, although it is hard]

The most commonly held theory is the points relate to twelve or eight vallorn hearts. It is possible that there are four lost cities or four dormant Vallorn hearts, although this is purely conjecture. There are eight Vallorn hearts that were are aware of (if we include the destroyed heart in Seren), the five within the Empire, one in [[Thule]] lands to the North and one in Beantel Dol ruled by the Druj. There are several theories or reports about a sunken Vallorn heart off the Cazatar Bay. ^[I can find no evidence that there is a sunken heart in the Cazatar Bay]

Several scholars have tried to map the carvings onto a map of the Empire but in doing so there are problems where they do not line up with where we know the Vallorn hearts in the Empire are and it is not possible to map the Trods using this methods.

A little known account from 176 YE tells of the Vate, Siriol Leafstalker, who claimed to have be able to map the markings on Rhonwen's Fall to a map of The Empire. Siriol had worked with a group of [[Urizen]] Stargazers to predict changes in the Spring Realm over time, and the mapping of the Vallorn hearts under this algorithm was accurate to fifty miles within The Empire. Siriol was declared a Sorcerer in 179 YE by the conclave and her theories were widely discredited.

It is not known if the full details on her theories were lost in the reign of Nicovarr or deliberately destroyed by the Conclave, but second hand reports show that it was believe that she believed that the three points not in The Empire were to be found in [[Otkodov]], [[The Mallum]] and The Broken Shore. The mapping of the four other points using Siriol's theories showed the other four markings to be mapped in Narkyst, The Lassambrian Hills, [[Axos]] and The Vore.

**The Fall running Red**

Records from the time when the Silent Word performed their ritual at Rhonwen's Fall were that the waterfall ran with blood. Here is one of the contemporary accounts of the event.

"As Rhonwen took her stand, the host of The Vallorn came from the Forests. Almost a thousand husks came from the heart of the [[Forest]]. As they marched up the narrow path, led by a host of foul ettercaps. As they pushed forwards through the mouth of the Fall, the brave defenders took down many. Vates called the powers of Spring to make their staves drip with [[Venom]] whilst spear and bow felled a multitude of the host. All those who watched from the shadow of the Fall saw at that moment as the clear waters of the Fall turned a dark red and blood started to run down the mouth of the caves."

There have been many followers of Rhonwen over the years who have stated that this was a miracle, and one of the signs that Rhonwen should be declared an Exemplar. ^[Liberation, [[Recognition]], Benevolence, Inspiration, Miracles, [[Pilgrimage]], Salvation, [[Legacy]].] The opponents to this have either argued that this is a magical affect from the Winter Realm or the more cynical have put this down to coincidence with impurities from the Orichalcum Mines that are at the top of the Fall. It was Generally accepted that the bleeding that was seen during Rhonwen's ritual was due the Orichalcum, and this has occurred three times since in known history.

In the rule [[Empress Aenea]] there was a report of the Fall bleeding. Although it was heavily debated whether this was due to the Orichalcum,, the conclave sent a small group of skilled mages including the Spring [[Archmage]], Badden [[Eternal]] and the Winter Archmage Enchanter Blaihot of House Bascombe of [[Dawn]]. The two were close friends, and spent some time investigating the fall. The next season, the two archmages were summoned to the conclave to explain what they had seen and what had happened there. Both archmages were highly respected and their actions took many of the conclave by surprise. When ordered by the conclave to speak of their findings they refused to speak of anything they had seen or heard there and after several hours of arguing including Declarations of [[Sorcery]] being placed against them both and Challenges from several other mages for their roles. Their reputation was such that the declarations of sorcery both failed and their positions as archmages looked secure. It was thought that they Synod was pLanning on condemning them and pushing towards [[Excommunication]] and so they eventually stepped down, refusing to contest their positions.

In the years that followed, Badden formed a [[Wayhouse]] in Miaren where he settled down and tended to the needs of any who were passing. It is said that Blaihot returned to Dawn and removed himself from active life, although his daughter became a highly successful [[General]]. There were, however, rumours that her success was due to the fact that the [[Eastern Sky]] was always backed up by a host of undying spirits summoned by her father. ^[The casting of [[Quickening Cold Meat]] was rarely cast before the fall of Britta due to the potential side effects of where the Spirits go after the ritual finishes. However, the bastern sky was known to have this ritual cast upon it twice during this time]

The second time that there were reports of the Fall bleeding was in the Interregnum before Emperor Nicovarr and Empress Marlika. The [[Senator]] of Miaren at the time was a [[Merrow]] Broker by the name of Leri Ravenswing, who ordered a full investigation into the bleeding. The mines at the top of the Fall were closed, and the small Steading of Long-Shadow was created this day as the mines were relocated to the bottom of the fall inside the long shadow of the cliffs.

There were still reports that there were still deposits of the Orichalcum in the water, and so Leri Visited Rhonwen's Fall personally. She spent over a week at Rhonwen's Fall and investigated the mines and the routes personally. She claimed the moving of the mines to be an economic success and it was soon after this that she started her campaign for Empress.

Leri was a polarising figure in the Senate and it is said that it was her nomination for Empress that caused many of the other candidates to pull out and to place their support behind either Leri of Marika. Reports of the time tell of rumours that Leri Cursed Marika to scare her from standing for Empress, some say that Marika was cursed to age where as there are other stories that she had nightmares that caused her restless sleep. There are other reports that the curses were places by Tekupala ton Marika o remove the support of Leri from the senate. The curses definitely did not help Leri's campaign, and she returned to her steading after this and destroyed all records of her time as senator. There are no records of Leri returning to [[Anvil]] or political life.

The last time the Fall bled was during the reign of [[Empress Deanne]]. As a native of Miaren, Deanne arrived to Rhonwen's Fall personally where she met with members of the Silent-Word coven and a young guide by the name of Dewi Shadowbirch ^[Shadowbirch steading is based in [[Therunin]] in the Steading of Return.] . With the mines having moved to the bottom of the Fall it was believed that it was flooding of the old [[Mine]] shafts that caused the bleeding of the waters.

There are once again no records of the meeting. Senate records show that when Empress Deanne was about her time there she commented on the hospitality of her hosts but laughed away the blood talking about the fact that sometimes things are mysteries for a reason. There are no other mentions of the meeting. Dewi never returned home and went on to become the host of the [[Navarr Egregore]] Spirit. It was said that he spent his remaining years walking the Trods and giving guidance to those who would listen.

**Rhonwen's Fall**

Rhonwen's Fall is home to several groups., some are Stridings based then and others are Steadings that use Rhonwen's Fall as a sheltering point over winter.

Fallshome Steading is the major Steading that is still based in Rhonwen's Fall. They have skilled brokers and artisans and often trade the rich Orichalcum that is found in the area. Gerallt Fallshome was the [[Cardinal of Vigilance]] in the Reign of [[Empress Giselle]] and members of the Fallshome Steading have been General of the [[Quiet Step]] three times in Imperial History. Fallshome Steading are welcoming for any Navarr who would need sanctuary, although they have set up waystations to trade away from the falls themselves.

Silent-Word who are a small [[Striding]] that return to Rhonwen's Fall most Winters to rest, they claim to be the decendents of Rhonwen herself and have made sure that every time that the Fall has run red that they open up their halls to those who would come and witness. There are no records that they have ever been active in Anvil although there are records of their involvement in political matters where Rhonwen's Fall has been mentioned on in records. Fallshome Steading say that Silent-Word have their own rooms and accommodations in the Fall which only they can access — this includes a full banquet hall that is used when they invite guests to the Fall.

The small steading of long-shadow still exists at the bottom of the fall providing Orichalcum for the artisans in Fallshome. This steading was established by the Miaren Senator Leri Ravenswing ^[See above for details of Leri] when she relocated the mines at the top of the Fall to the foot of them. Although long-shadow is a small steading it has a proud heritage and refuses to be named as part of Fallshome itself.

The striding of Ivymoon, although based in Trejii, used to regularly walk the trods from Rhonwen's Fall to Trejii although the steading has not been heard of since the [[Gatekeeper of Loyalty]], Adain Ivymoon, was slain at the fall of Trejii. The Ivymoon steading has had a renowned history ^[Deanne Ivymoon was one of the original founders of the Ivymoon striding.] since it was formed after the Death of [[Emperor James]].

*The original findings have been edited, refined, and in some cases expanded by the Navarr scholar Brianna Redwind, following her Autumn 381 YE return from an extended sabbatical in Axos alongside Ellian Sweetwater. It forms part of an ongoing effort initiated by the Department of Historical Research to review a number of recent documents they have presented.*

**Sanctuary Falls**

The steading of Rhonwen's Fall was originally known as Sanctuary Falls. When Seren was overwhelmed, many of the refugees regrouped at Sanctuary Falls ahead of the vallorns initial expansion, and managed to prevent the location being overwhelmed. There is some evidence that many of the intricate designs located there predate the casting of the great ritual; some are believed to have been carved by a powerful magician (perhaps a proto-vate) by the name of Star who is anecdotally believed to have been a covenmate of Navarr herself. Indeed, one of the few stories that mention Star directly speak of her being one of those who led many of the refugees out of Seren to the comparative safety of Sanctuary. There are records that Star returned to Sanctuary Falls several times and it is even thought that she died there. No physical remains have ever been found, but it is unlikely that they would have been - even in the first years following The Vallorn disaster the ability of the miasma to animate the recently dead must have been well known.

Sanctuary Falls itself was built into cliffs behind the waterfalls of the Gancio. It was in here that the Seren refugees hid for a time from the orcs who were still invading the territory. There is archaeological evidence that points to orcs bearing symbols associated with both the Jotun and the Thule being present in the land around this time, despite the relative distance from their respective nations. What ultimately happened to the refugees here is not clear; some argue that they were the ancestors of the Navart who used the Falls as a steading while others say that as The Vallorn became stronger they were forced to retreat eastward into [[Astolat]].

Today Rhonwen's Fall is home to several well-known groups. Fallshome is the major steading here, known for their skilled brokers and artisans. They trade the rich orichalcum from the mines that surround the lower falls. The Silent-Word are a small striding associated with the Falls that return here most Winters to rest; they claim to be the literal descendants of Rhonwen herself.

Every time the Falls have run red they have offered hospitality to any who would come and witness. The small steading of Long-shadow still exists at the bottom of the fall providing orichalcum for the artisans in Fallshome. Finally, the striding of Ivymoon walked the trods from Rhonwen's Fall to Trej in [[Hercynia]], although they are believed to have fallen alongside Adain Ivymoon, former [[Cardinal of Loyalty]], who was slain by the hands of the Thule during the fall of Treji.

**The Designs**

Looking at the carvings on Sanctuary Falls there appear to be twelve key points that are marked upon the cliffs, joined by a complex pattern of spiral carvings.

Of these twelve points there are eight that are marked more deeply, with more complicated carvings between them. Several theories suggest that these points relate to the Vallorn hearts, but these theories are widely disputed. The exact number of Vallorn has been a matter of debate for centuries, but it is considered unlikely that there are as many as a dozen.

Until very recently, modern Imperial scholarship cautiously accepted that there are only seven hearts - five in the Empire (in Miaren, Therunin, Hercynia, [[Liathaven]] and [[Brocéliande]]), one in Thule lands to the north (now confirmed as being in southern Sküld, and one in the Mallum, believed to be named Beantal Dól. Speculation places an eighth heart in a rumoured "sunken city" at the heart of the [[Bay of Catazar]] - Feion Essa - but there is actually little solid evidence to support this claim. Most of the stories of Feion Essa can be traced to a book written in [[The League]] sometime in the early days of the Empire.

Recent information from Axos confirms the presence of an actual eighth vallorn in that eastern nation. Indeed a recent expedition by members of the Department of Historical Research has confirmed the existence of a massive vallorn surrounding the city of Cavan at the heart of Axos.

Scholars have tried to map the carvings onto a map of the Empire but they do not seem to map in anyway with the Trod network. In 176 YE the historian Siriol Leafstalker claimed to be able to map the markings on Rhonwen's Fall to a map of the Empire. Working with a group of Urizen stargazers to predict changes in the influence of the Spring realm over time. Apparently they discovered that taking this slow shift over time into account, the designs mapped to the current positions of the trods to within a reasonable margin of error - although modern scholars are unable to replicate their research. Details on her theories were lost in the reign of [[Emperor Nicovar]], she successfully predicted that other vallorn would be found in Otkodov, the Mallum and Axos, but also suggested four other markings relevant to the vallorn were located in Narkyst, the Lasambrian Hills, the Broken Shore, and the Vore.

No modern scholars have ever been able to reproduce these predictions and it is widely believed that the predictions must have been flawed. There is not the slightest sign of any vallorn in the Lasambrian Hills and a recently discovered letter from [[Emperor Guntherm]] to Reaghan Leafstalker, the historian's granddaughter, included a note that the King of Narkyst claimed that there was no trace of anything like the vallorn in their lands. As a result modern scholars cannot say with any confidence whether Siriol Leafstalker's correct predictions of the vallorn in the Otkodov and the Mallum were brilliant, or simply fortuitous.

Interestingly, there are no reliable accounts of Navarr herself visiting Sanctuary Falls. Those scholars who believe the designs there pre-date the great disaster find this unusual as some of them appear to match up to the trods that originate in Miaren and pass through the adjacent territories. Did these carvings have some connection to the original Dance of Navarr and Thorn? Or were the Terunael familiar in some way with the concept of trods? There are no obvious answers to these questions - only rampant speculation.

**The Bleeding Falls**

Records from the time when the Silent Word performed their ritual at Rhonwen's Fall say that during the working, the waterfall ran with blood.

Cynics suggest that this perceived change in colour was another coincidence - impurities from the orichalcum mines upstream could easily have been responsible for giving the water a reddish taint. There are reports of this orichalcum staining effecting being severe enough to cause concern three times during the history of the Empire.

The first occurrence was during the reign of Empress Aenea. A group of skilled mages sent by the [[Imperial Conclave]] including the Spring Archmage, Badden Eternal, and the Winter Archmage, Enchanter Blaihot of House Bascombe.

The two were close friends, and spent some time investigating the fall; yet when summoned by the Conclave to give their report, they refused to speak of what had happened there. Declarations of Sorcery were brought against them although both failed to be upheld by the Conclave), and both resigned their positions shortly after. Badden went on to raise a wayhouse in Miaren where he settled down and tended to the needs of any who were passing. Enchanter Biaihot returned to Dawn and removed himself from public life. His daughter Ofelia became the highly successful general of the Eastern Sky; it is widely believed that talk of "a host of undying spirits" that fought alongside the Dawnish soldiers was reference to a ritual [[Enchantment]] provided by her father's coven.

The second time that there were reports of the bleeding falls was in the period between the reigns of Emperor Nicovar and Empress Marika. The senator for Miaren at this time was a merrow by the name of Leri Ravenswing, who ordered a full investigation into the previous bleeding incident. The mines at the top of the Fall were temporarily closed, and the small steading of Long-Shadow was created this day as the mine workings were relocated to the bottom of the Fall inside the long shadow of the cliffs. Since there were still deposits of orichalcum in the water, Leri visited Rhonwen's Fall personally. It was after this visit that she started her campaign for Empress. Some historians argue that it was Leri's nomination and the subsequent political manoeuvring that lead ultimately to the election of Empress Marika. Stories suggest that Leri laid some sort of [[Curse]] on Marika - or threatened to do so - in an attempt to scare her out of standing for Empress, but that she miscalculated and backlash against her unsubtle behaviour [[Cost]] her any chance of gaining [[The Throne]].

The last time the Fall bled was during the reign of Empress Deanne. As a native of Miaren, Deanne responded to the reports with a personal visit to Rhonwen's Fall, where she met with members of the Silent-Word coven and a young guide by the name of Dewi Shadowbirch. There are once again no records of what was discussed during the meeting and when asked Deanne commented only on the hospitality of her hosts, laughing off the matter of the red waters with an off-hand comment that sometimes things are mysteries for a reason. Dewi went on to become the host of the Navarr egregore spirit, best known for his enthusiasm for walking the trods guiding as many Navarr as he could.