---
IgnoreLinking: False
Tags: ['Wintermark']
Title: Heroism
draft: False
revision_date: 2023-10-25 15:08:22+00:00
revision_id: 105929
---

## Overview
The Winterfolk admire [[Heroism|heroism]] and believe that it speeds your passage through the Labyrinth of Ages. Although [[Heroism|heroism]] is not one of the seven Virtues, acts of [[Heroism|heroism]] encompass any or all of them to some extent. [[Heroism]] does not require success, but it does demand that the possibility of triumph exists; there is nothing heroic about wasting your life in a foolhardy charge. [[Heroism]] is often easiest to notice in battle, but many noble qualities or outstanding achievements demonstrate heroism. A clever [[Suaq]] who outwits an [[Eternal]] in a battle of riddles or a wise [[Kallavesi]] surgeon whose [[Herb|herb]]-lore saves a dozen lives are both [[Heroes|heroes]].
Heroic acts are distinguished by what is achieved or attempted, not how difficult or dangerous they are. Deliberately making an act more difficult than it need be impresses no-one in [[Wintermark]]. Equally the heroism is not diminished if the act is accomplished with others; indeed the more people who are involved in act the more heroic it becomes. It is brave to charge the orc line, but it is heroic to lead the charge.
The Winterfolk regard heroism as superior to Dawnish ideals of [[Glory]]. In their eyes [[Glory|glory]] is needlessly vain; a Winterfolk hero does not need to have other people know of their accomplishments. They believe that the pursuit of [[Glory|glory]] encourages people to make their challenges needlessly difficult and denies the value of wit and guile. In [[Wintermark]] nobody demands that your actions be impressive; it is enough that they are effective.
Each of the three traditions of [[Wintermark]] has their own idea of what makes someone a true hero. The [[Kallavesi]] believe that heroism comes most clearly from exploration of the skein; the [[Steinr]] that it comes from both prowess and skill; and the [[Suaq]] from cleverness. There are many other paths to heroism, however.
## Chronicle of Heroism
During the [[Summer]] Solstice 383YE, [[The Senate|the Senate]] voted to support the creation of a "chronicle of [[Heroes|heroes]]", allowing the priests of [[Wintermark]] to identify and record the heroic deeds of the scions of the storm. Taking inspiration from the [[Assembly|assembly]] of [[Prosperity]], and their [[Roll of Benefactors]],  the chronicle allows the [[Wintermark]] [[National Assembly]] to add a name to the Chronicle by raising a [[Statement of Principle]], which must pass with a [[Greater majority|greater majority]]. The [[Judgement|judgement]] should include a clear description of the heroic deeds being chronicled, these would be added to the record along with the hero's name. As always with a [[Statement of Principle|statement of principle]] that receives a greater majority, there is some potential for additional effects.
### Atte Arrow-Tongued
During the [[Autumn]] Equinox 385YE, the WIntermark [[Assembly|assembly]] judged that Atte Arrow-Tongued should have their name added to the Book of [[Heroes]]. The [[Suaq]], who has served many times as [[Senator]] for [[Sermersuaq]], was described as a steadfast supporter of strengthening Wintermark who had guided the nation through some of the most turbulent times since the death of the Young Empress. In particular they were praised for their key role in the gifting of [[Skarsind]] to the [[Imperial Orcs]], and the vital part they played in the success of the initial [[Liberty Pact]] negotiations. Now, they have committed themselves to lifting up [[Sermersuaq]], ensuring the [[Territory|territory]] does not continue to be overlooked.
### Beodun Snowlock, Warcrow
During the [[Winter]] Solstice 384YE, the Wintermark [[Assembly|assembly]] judged that the priest Beodun Snowlock should have his name added to the Book of [[Heroes]]. He who gave his hero's life for many. He whose story inspired, his name the rallying cry for the retaking of Ataloq. He whose [[Legacy|legacy]] lingers, and is keenly felt within the heart of the Mark and beyond. The Mark remembers.
### Dagmar of the Lewd Parchments
During the Autumn Equinox 384YE, the Wintermark [[Assembly]] judged that Dagmar of the Lewd Parchments was a symbol of the liberation of [[Sermersuaq]]. She was loved by many, and she fell in the final conjunction before her homeland was reclaimed. Her sacrifices in the pursuit of [[Ambition]] and her life's work to retake the [[Suaq]]'s ancestral lands prove her deserving a place in the Chronicle of Heroism.
### Dogri Thulebane
During the [[Spring]] Equinox 385YE, the Wintermark [[Assembly|assembly]] judged that Dogri Thulebane should have his name added to the Book of [[Heroes]]. He fought uncompromisingly to drive the [[Thule]] out of [[Skarsind]] and defended Crows Ridge from them. He died protecting his people, fighting the [[Grendel]] in service to [[The Empire|the Empire]] a hero's death. Every action he took was motivated by his unwavering [[Loyalty]] to our nation and our people. He inspired many people in the mark and he serves as an example of what [[Pride]], [[Courage]], and [[Loyalty]] looks like.
### Helgunn Chargebringer
Helgunn Chargebringer of the Fellowship of the Broken Willow had their name added to the Book of Heroes during the Autumn Equinox 385YE. They were a Courageous, Proud, Wise, and Loyal leader of the Heart of the Mark until they met their end fighting the [[Jotun]] orcs in [[Kahraman]]. [[Time and time again]] they welcomed new heroes of Wintermark into their warband, helped them along the path of the hero, and watched over them as they in turn helped [[The Empire|the Empire]] secure greater victories on [[The Battlefield|the battlefield]]. They earnt their name "Chargebringer" for showing immense [[Courage]] through leading multiple charges from the front and inspired everyone to step with them.
### Iron Osric
During the Summer Solstice 385YE, the Wintermark assembly judged that Iron Osric's name should be entered in the Book of Heroes for their generalship of the [[Green Shield]] army. "Long has the [[Green Shield]] been the proving ground of the [[Steinr]]. From [[Spiral]] to [[Sermersuaq]], from empress to interregnum, heroically have you championed the nation's boldest ideals. It is time we proved that heroism is the shield that holds, not just [[The Blade|the blade]] that strikes."
### Lofyn [[Bloodcloak]]
During the Spring Equinox 384YE, the Wintermark assembly judged that Lofyn [[Bloodcloak]], first [[General|general]] of the renewed [[Bloodcloaks]] should have her name added to the Book of Heroes. She worked tirelessly to restore the [[Bloodcloaks]] Army, leading it since it reformed in 382YE. She entered the [[Bloodcloak]] schema into [[Imperial lore]], making the knowledge available to all citizens. She swore an oath to return to [[Sermersuaq]] with her army which she then fulfilled, helping to drive the [[Jotun]] back and liberate the territory. She is a hero, by word and deed.
### Raknar Ravenstorm of Stormspire
During the Autumn Equinox 383YE, the Wintermark National Assembly judged that [[Thane]] Raknar Ravenstorm of Stormspire shall have his name added to the Book of Heroes for his pivotal role in [[Warden|warden]] of the raid of Ikka's Tears, calling upon the aid of the other nations and achieving great success against the [[Jotun]] and moving forward the [[War|war]] to regain Sermersuaq.