---
IgnoreLinking: False
Tags: ['Recent-History', 'Spring-379YE', 'Winds-of-Fortune']
Title: A Miracle in Hahnmark
aliases: ['A_Miracle_in_Hahnmark']
draft: False
revision_date: 2023-08-03 23:28:41+00:00
revision_id: 104312
---

## Miracle in [[Hahnmark]]
Ville paused to wipe the sweat from his brow, and stretched his back. Instead of the ache of his muscles, they felt almost as though they glowed. A warm sensation filled Ville and it felt good. Somehow, Ville knew without knowing how, that the harder his muscles ached, the better it would feel. Alongside that, it was almost as though he could hear the [[Weltsilver|weltsilver]] calling to him, inviting him to free it from the grasp of cold, unyielding, stone.
Ville looked to his left and he could see that Needa felt it too. Grinning the pair hefted their picks and struck again and again.
Word is spreading of weltsilver mines in [[Hahnmark]] spontaneously generating auras consistent with the Virtue of [[Prosperity]]. Miners have reported feeling enervated and enjoyment from mining the reddish glistening ore, which has increased their enthusiasm for the work. Consequently, these miraculous auras have significantly increased the productivity of those mines. As a byproduct of this, there has been an increase in religious zeal in the area, and attendance - and associated influence - of congregations has also increased.
There have been some complaints from businesses across the [[Territory]] who have found that there has been a migration of labour to [[Mine|mine]] working, which has left them short-handed an affected output. The shift in labour is credited to a mixture of a belief in the more virtuous nature of the work, and the positive sensations generated. 
[[Events]] of this nature, whilst uncommon, are certainly not unheard of and attest to the positive benefits of the Virtues in this life, and all others. There is talk that these [[Aura|aura]] stem from a forgotten [[Wintermark]] [[Paragon]] of [[Prosperity]], who perhaps displayed signs of ''benevolence'' and ''[[Legacy|legacy]]'' through the mastery of weltsilver. There are no surviving records of such. Following recent [[Events|events]], this has caused some debate over whether they were [[Kallavesi]], [[Steinr]] or [[Suaq]].
Based off similar [[Events|events]] in the lifetime of [[The Empire|the Empire]], the civil service predicts that if no action is taken, then the effect [[Will|will]] be a major increase in the productivity of Weltsilver mines[1], and moderate increase in the attendance and influence of congregations in [[Hahnmark]][2], but a moderate downturn in [[Hahnmark]] businesses[3]
There have been times in [[The Empire|the Empire]]'s [[History|history]] when the citizens have wanted to take action, and examples of this have included:
* Back in the time of the [[Emperor Giovanni]] the Peacemaker, the decision was taken by [[The Senate|the Senate]] that as one group of citizens was blessed, another should not be short changed. A [[Senate motion]] disbursed funds to offer a subsidy for recruitment that allowed businesses to compete. The civil service estimates that this would [[Cost|cost]] 47 Thrones and the effect would be that the mines would only benefit by a moderate amount[4], but that the impact on businesses would be negated, and the effect on congregations would remain. Theoretically, the [[General]] [[Assembly|assembly]] of [[The Synod|the Synod]] could also make such a payment using the [[Synod]] power of [[Rewarding]].
* Although the spontaneous auras are confined to the weltsilver mines, in similar situations the [[Assembly]] of [[Prosperity]] has been able to capitalise on this and - using priestly auras - spread the benefit more widely. A [[Statement of Principle]] from the [[Assembly]] of [[Prosperity]] could name a person - capable of raising consecrations - who could coordinate the consecrations of other mines so that the auras demonstrate the value of all [[Mine|mine]] working. The civil service estimates the named priest would need around 24 [[Liao]] to spread this benefit sufficiently. The effect would be that the major benefit experienced by weltsilver mines would apply to all types of [[Mine|mine]][5].
* Spiritual [[Events|events]] also lend themselves to [[Opportunities|opportunities]] for [[Missionary work|missionary work]] to spread, and reinforce, the benefits of a Virtuous Life. A disbursement of 8 Thrones from a [[Senate motion|Senate Motion]] or Virtue Fund [[Rewarding]] could support this work so that the effect can be spread to include a single named territory adjacent to [[Hahnmark]]. The territory would need to be named in the Motion or the [[Judgement]] of [[Rewarding]].[6]
* More controversially, during the reign of [[Empress Varkula]], a [[Cardinal of the Way]] - an [[Urizen]] [[Illuminate]] suspected of Lucidianism - called for the [[Exorcism]] of a spontaneous [[Aura|aura]] of [[Ambition]] as actually being disruptive to the functioning of [[The Empire|the Empire]]. This would require a [[Statement of Principle]] from either the [[Wintermark]] [[National Assembly]], or a [[Virtue assembly|Virtue Assembly]], which would name a person who would take responsibility for the [[Exorcism|exorcism]] of the auras. The named person would need around 14 [[Liao|liao]] to ensure the [[Exorcism|exorcism]] of the auras ensuring the current effect be nullified.[7] Note: The [[Exorcism|exorcism]] of a spontaneously arising virtuous [[Aura|aura]] is currently classed as the [[Religious crime|religious crime]] of Desecration and individuals doing so may be condemned by the Synod if they do not have an legal exemption from the [[Senate]]
The above options are the lessons learned across the history of [[The Empire|the Empire]]. The civil service does not expect that this is an exhaustive or absolute list. Costings for [[Senate Motions]], [[Conclave]] Gambits or Synod Rewardings can be requested from the civil service at the Hub. Other actions taken by Imperial citizens may also be taken into account.
## Resolution
A [[Judgement|judgement]] of [[Rewarding]] was raised by Spike in the [[General Assembly|General assembly]] and upheld; Jorma Steelhail was charged with taking the money and spreading word of the miracle in Hahnmark to neighbouring [[Skarsind]]. A further [[Judgement|judgement]] was raised in the [[Prosperity]] [[Assembly]] by Ealstan sending Soratio Seseer Del Toro to spread the virtuous word so that ''all'' mines in the affected territories would benefit.
## Footnotes
* [1] +4 resources to Weltsilver mines in affected territory
* [2] +1 [[Liao|liao]] and +2 influence to congregations in affected territory
* [3] -33 Rings to affected businesses
* [4] Benefit to affected mines falls to +2 resources, but no impact on businesses
* [5] +4 resources to all types of mines in affected territory; not just weltsilver
* [6] The effect also covers a territory adjacent to Hahnmark
* [7] No impact on mines, businesses or congregations