---
IgnoreLinking: False
Tags: ['384YE-Autumn', 'Recent-History', 'Winds-of-Fortune', 'Appraisal']
Title: Back in the same place
aliases: ['Back_in_the_same_place']
draft: False
revision_date: 2023-07-02 16:32:14+00:00
revision_id: 102876
---

Graciana fiddled with the end of her braid that was draped over her shoulder. She couldn't resist playing with it even though she knew it was a sure tell that she was losing her temper. It wasn't that the fact [[The Prince|the prince]] was deliberately dragging this out that was annoying her, it was the fact that she couldn't work out ''why''. The woman clearly wanted something, so why not just spit it out? Dealing with citizens of [[The League|the League]] always set her teeth on edge.
Eventually, after an interminable pause as [[The Prince|the prince]] pretended to study the paperwork, her non-existent patience finally snapped. "I need your support Reyhan and It doesn't matter what it costs. The [[Imperial Senate]] can pay whatever price you name."
Reyhan von [[Temeschwar]], the [[Merchant Prince|merchant prince]] of the Hod Hands, was a broad-shouldered woman with a muscular physique honed by years of hard manual labour. Still she smiled sweetly as she looked up from the documents. "That's very reassuring Graciana, and I shall certainly bear what you've said in mind. However, I rather suspect it does matter what it costs, it just doesn't matter to you." She cast her eyes down as if she were still reading, but she carried on speaking just the same. Her tone changed slightly though, perhaps a sign that she was finally getting down to brass tacks.
"I have in fact already seen the plans drawn up by your department, and I'm keen to be involved. However any support that my [[Guild|guild]] can offer for this new endeavour [[Will|will]] be contingent on two requirements being met. First that any brickwork for the new building [[Will|will]] come directly to the Hod Hands - for a reasonable price of course. And second, that the new [[Imperial Title|Imperial title]] [[Will|will]] be a national [[League]] position with a clearly stated responsibility to use its position to enrich [[The League|the League]]."
Graciana blinked in [[Confusion|confusion]] at the woman's words. Having expected the financial demands to outweigh the political ones she was a little surprised to be hit with the reverse. She still had enough composure not to let this moment slide through her fingers. "Fine - I'm more than happy to include that in my report. [[The Senate]] can decide if they want to proceed on that basis."
"Excellent! In that case you'll be pleased to know that I've already taken the liberty of discussing my proposal with Istella, Nikolai and Gregory and I'm pleased to say that my fellow princes are all a similar mind." 
Graciana couldn't place Nikolai, but the other two names she did recognise. Istella von [[Temeschwar]], was the merchant prince of the Grey Slate Cartel, the biggest [[Guild|guild]] of roof layers and slate cutters in the city. Gregory was presumably Gregory di Vargat, his [[Guild|guild]] owned three of the largest timber forests in Northern [[Temeschwar]] and his carpenters claimed to build the best roof trusses in [[The League|the League]].
She'd been planning to speak to both of them, now it seemed she would be saved the effort. This was all turning out to be easier than she'd expected.
Audio|link=https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5MgvULPFRMs
## Overview
The [[Imperial Senate]] has instructed Graciana i Lòpez i [[Guerra]] to look into the potential to construct a university in [[Temeschwar]], one that [[Will|will]] increase the number of commissions [[The Empire|the Empire]] can initiate each season by at least one.
The [[Appraisal]] [[Will|will]] not be easy. It would be relatively uncomplicated for Graciana to look into ways [[The Empire|the Empire]] might increase the number of commissions they can handle each season, and equally possible to consider the [[Opportunities|opportunities]] that might be had by constructing a new university in [[Temeschwar]]. What makes it much more challenging is trying to do both at the same time: to find a way to increase the number of commissions available to [[The Empire|the Empire]] by building a university in Temeschwar.
Graciana's report makes clear that these restrictions have meant that she has not been able to consider all the possible benefits that a new university in Temeschwar might have provided. Moreover the options she has identified for increasing the number of commissions are more expensive than they might otherwise have been. The prognosticator already has a well-deserved reputation for creating expensive solutions to problems, so these options must be particularly expensive for her to feel the need to call it out.
A motion to appraise an [[Opportunity|opportunity]] to construct an Architectural University in Temeschwar that would provide [[The Empire|the Empire]] with at least one additional build slot. The appointed prognosticator is Graciana i Lopez i [[Guerra]].
## Temeschwar's Strengths
When Imperial citizens think of engineering or universities, it is [[Holberg]] they imagine. The great city is famed for its huge walls, the largest in [[The Empire|the Empire]] and possibly in the world, but it is also the home of the Empire's first university. It is widely accepted that the University of [[Holberg]] is the foremost centre of learning for medicine and engineering in the Empire, and the recent plans to expand the University and create the new title of [[Chair of the Wolf]] reflect the city's predominance.
However, there are universities with their own schools of learning in every city in [[The League]], and Temeschwar is no exception. Regrettably, the city has no great tradition of studying engineering that might be expanded upon. The University does have three well-respected departments; the ''Vacastrian School of Metallurgy'', which studies the use of metals and produces many highly qualified artisans; the ''Faculty of Mining'', dedicated to researching and teaching new techniques for improving mines and the ''Barred Doors'', a small but important college that studies wards and warding [[Magic|magic]]. All of them have some potential for expansion, but none seem guaranteed to meet the criteria for the [[Appraisal|appraisal]].
In the end Graciana is forced to acknowledge that the existing academic facilities in Temeschwar don't lend themselves to the requirements of the [[Senate]] [[Appraisal|appraisal]]. However her investigations do reveal an appetite in Temeschwar to work with the Prognosticators Office and she soon finds a number of ambitious citizens beating a path to her door. Together they are able to put together some options, any or all of which could be enacted by the [[Imperial Senate]].
## A Prestigious New University
University of Temeschwar
[[Commission]] Type: [[Folly]]
Location: City of Temeschwar, Hanuri (in Temeschwar)
[[Cost]]: 60 wains of [[White granite|white granite]], 30 wains of [[Weirwood|weirwood]], 180 Crowns, six months
Effect: Creates ''[[Master of Rings]]'' title
Limited: Remains available until the end of the [[Summer]] Solstice 385YE
* A new university building would require 60 wains of [[White granite|white granite]] and 30 wains of [[Weirwood|weirwood]], and [[Cost|cost]] 180 crowns. It would have to be constructed in Temeschwar in Hanuri and would take six months to complete.
* It would create a national League title, the [[Master of Rings]], which would need to be appointed by the [[Imperial Bourse]] by [[Tally of the Votes]]
* The [[Master of Rings]] could announce one civilian [[Commission|commission]] in the [[Imperial Senate]] which would not count against the maximum number of commissions the Senate could authorise each season
After lengthy consultation with a number of wealthy Temeschwari citizens, Graciana outlines a grand plan to create a new university building in Temeschwar. A set of dishevelled slums on the north side of the city would be demolished to make way for the grand edifice. The centrepiece of the designs is a curved glass dome over a central atrium leading to large lecture rooms on all sides of [[The Chamber|the chamber]]. The new facilities would raise the profile and prestige of the University of Temeschwar to rival that of [[Holberg]] and [[Sarvos]]. While the planned school of engineering might take decades to develop a reputation and pedigree as impressive as that of the City of [[Holberg]] it would provide valuable instruction to a new generation of architects and engineers.
Crucially the expanded university would address a wound which has long festered in Temeschwar's side. Although it is possibly the richest of all [[The League|the League]] cities, many Temeschwari will privately admit to a belief that the inhabitants of the other cities look down on them. There is a common view in Temeschwar that folk in [[Sarvos]], [[Tassato]] and even [[Holberg]] consider themselves a cut above their northern cousin. Graciani has taken advantage of this by appealing to the [[Pride]] of the merchant princes of Temeschwar - getting their support in return for their backing for a [[Commission|commission]] that would firmly establish Temeschwar as every bit the equal of the other cities.
To this end, if the [[Imperial Senate]] aggress to [[Commission|commission]] and fund the construction of the new university, then wealthy inhabitants of Temeschwar will provide a number of generous endowments to support academic excellence at the new university. This support is crucial to Graciana's plan as it will allow the city to provide the oversight needed to handle a single civilian [[Commission|commission]] each season. The merchant princes propose that alongside the construction of the university, the Imperial Senate create a new national League title, the ''[[Master of Rings]]''.
### [[Master of Rings]]
Master of Rings
Title: League national title
[[Appointment]]: Annual; [[Tally of the Votes]]
Powers: Commission (via [[Senate announcement|Senate Announcement]]), Contributions ([[Ministry]])
Responsibilities: Increase the wealth of the League
[[White granite|White Granite]]
75 crowns3 wains of [[White granite|white granite]]
150 crowns6 wains of [[White granite|white granite]]
[[Mithril]]
75 crowns3 wains of [[Mithril|mithril]]
150 crowns6 wains of [[Mithril|mithril]]
[[Weirwood]]
75 crowns3 wains of [[Weirwood|weirwood]]
150 crowns6 wains of [[Weirwood|weirwood]]
* The Master of Rings would have the power to announce a single civilian commission each season that would not count against the limited number of Senate commissions
Appointed annually by the [[Imperial Bourse]] using [[Tally of the Votes]], the Master of Rings would be able to oversee a single civilian commission each season, announcing the work in the Imperial Senate. This commission would not count against the normal maximum number of commissions available to the Imperial Senate. The requirement that the Master be allowed to announce civilian commissions is very precise - it would include the ability to commission a [[Fane]], as well as any future commission types that might be uncovered. There is some concern about whether the Senate would be prepared to give that kind of power to a new title, but Graciana points out that a [[Fane|fane]] is useless unless it is ceded to an [[Eternal|eternal]] and that power is in the hands of senators.
In addition, the Master of Rings would receive contributions from the wealthy citizens of Temeschwar, and from the other University faculties. Large amounts of material passes through Temeschwar both from [[Varushka]] and via the [[Northern trade network]], and such support would allow the Master to secure amounts of White granite, [[Mithril]], and Weirwood each season. While the obvious intention is that these [[Materials|materials]] could be used to help build whatever commission the Master was working on, they could also potentially be sold at a profit to secure other [[Materials|materials]] or pay labour costs.
However, the wealthy citizens of Temeschwar are not prepared to provide this support without a quid pro quo. They insist that the [[Senate motion]] make clear that it is the ''responsibility'' of the Master of Rings to use their power to generate as much wealth for the merchant princes of Temeschwar, and for the rest of the League, as possible. They are interested in supporting the Master of Rings because they want to create new economic opportunities for their nation and its citizens; to allow them to benefit from the Empire's [[Prosperity|prosperity]]. The wayleaves have demonstrated the [[Worth|worth]] of the power to commission; Graciana's proposal would increase the number of commissions the Empire could undertake each season, while granting the League an [[Opportunity|opportunity]] to benefit from that. The merchant princes supporting the new faculty would look to the League National [[Assembly]] to ensure that the Master of Rings was using their power responsibly, and to take action if they were not.
The title cannot be created without this responsibility, and without the title the commission will not do anything.
## An Exemplary Scion
Lorenzo's Inspirational Tomb
Commission Type: [[Inspirational location]]
Location: Hanuri, in Temeschwar
Detail: A clear symbol of the Butchers' Bank
[[Cost]]: Minimum 30 wains of white granite, 60 Crowns, 1 dose of True [[Liao]], three months
Effect: Creates ''Blood Red Builder'' title
Limited: Remains available until the end of the Summer Solstice 385YE
* The [[Imperial Synod]] could declare Lorenzo Macelliao von Temeschwar to be an exemplar of [[Ambition]]
* This would allow the Imperial Senate to commission an inspirational tomb for La Volpe in Temeschwar
* A suitable inspirational tomb would require 30 wains of white granite (minimum), 60 crowns and one dose of [[True liao|true liao]], and take three months to complete
* Once complete, [[The Tomb|the tomb]] would create a new [[Imperial Title|Imperial title]], the Blood Red Builder
Lorenzo Macelliao von Temeschwar, La Volpe, to his friends is the most famous citizen of Temeschwar in living memory. In fact if it weren't for the Imperatrix, his heirs could make an argument for him being the most famous Imperial citizen in recent times. As the head of the Butcher's Bank, La Volpe and his associates amassed an unimaginable fortune from investments on [[The Bourse|the Bourse]]. After most of the Butchers withdrew from public life, La Volpe spent the Bank's fortune establishing great works the length and breadth of the Empire.
La Volpe's [[Legacy|legacy]] is not to everyone's taste. The garish symbol of the Butchers Bank, a giant pair of blood red axes, now adorns some of the most important structures in the Empire, and not everyone is enamoured of the Bank's aesthetics. What nobody can deny however, is his towering [[Ambition]]. He made little secret of his desire to become a [[Paragon|paragon]] and worked tirelessly to further his ambitions and to leave a [[Legacy|legacy]] that would benefit the entire Empire.
His recent passage into the Labyrinth has robbed the city of its most prominent scion and now there are a number of citizens in Temeschwar who would like to see his accomplishments suitably recognized. They are calling on the [[Imperial Synod]] to declare that whatever his faults, Lorenzo Macelliao von Temeschwar is an exemplar of Amibtion, and for the Imperial Senate to authorise the construction of a suitably impressive memorial. Such a work would require suitable grandeur, as well as a dose of true [[Liao|liao]]. Once complete it would inspire ambitious citizens everywhere and remind that it is virtuous to put their [[Ambition|ambition]] in service to the Empire if they can - provided it was built in Temeschwar of course.
If La Volpe was recognised as an exemplar and a suitable tomb constructed (it would need to bear the symbol of his bank), then it would inspire Ambitious citizens everywhere. While some pilgrims would visit [[The Tomb|the tomb]] of course, its main purpose would be to inspire people to emulate Lorenzo's successes. Followers of [[Ambition|ambition]] would seek to create great works - the kind of commission for which Lorenzo was best known. A suitable candidate would be appointed to oversee [[The Tomb|the tomb]], and to channel this enthusiasm, creating the title of ''Blood Red Builder''.
### Blood Red Builder
Blood Red Builder
Title:[[Ambition]] virtue title
[[Appointment]]: Annual; [[Judgement]] of [[Appointment]]
Powers: Commission [[Great work|Great Work]] or Inspirational Tomb (via [[Senate announcement|Senate Announcement]])
Responsibilities: Encourage ambition
Option: If Lorenzo were recognised as an exemplar of [[Pride]], the title would instead be appointed by the [[Pride]] [[Assembly|assembly]]
* The Blood Red Builder could commission one [[Great work|great work]] or inspirational tomb each season by announcement in the Imperial Senate
* The Builder could not announce a new [[Great work|great work]] or tomb until the previous commission they announced was completed, lapsed or had been abrogated or vetoed
* The title could be appointed either by the League [[National Assembly]] or by the [[Assembly]] of Ambition
The Blood Red Builder would be an [[Imperial Title]] appointed by the [[Assembly]] of Ambition each year. They would oversee [[The Tomb|the tomb]] and help channel the enthusiasm of the ambitious architects and visionary engineers of the Empire. This would allow them to commission great works - but it would also allow them to commission inspirational tombs. Many of those dedicated to Ambition see exemplars and paragons as inspirational regardless of which virtue they are recognised for. Becoming an inspiration to others is seen by many as being a worthy goal in itself, and as such they could easily be persuaded to turn their enthusiasm toward constructing suitably grand tombs for those who lack them.
As such the Blood Red Builder would be able to commission a single [[Great work]] each season via [[Senate announcement]] that would not could against the maximum number of commissions the Senate could authorise each season This construction would be arranged, overseen, and built by the virtuous - as long as they remained confident that the Blood Red Builder shared their ambitions. As such the title would also have a ''responsibility'' to inspire ambitious citizens, pursue innovative great works, and generally emulate Lorenzo Macelliao von Temeschwar - although there would be no requirement for them to make ''everything'' red of course.
Once a commission had been announced in this way, the Blood Red Builder could not announce a new commission until the previous one is completed, or is abrogated, vetoed or the commission lapses.
While he spread his great works all over the Empire, there are few who doubt that Lorenzo Macelliao von Temeschwar was a true son of the League. As such, while the Blood Red Builder could be appointed by the Ambition [[Assembly]], it would be possible to have the title appointed by the League National Assembly instead. [[The Tomb|The tomb]] would still inspire the ambitious, and could still be made into a grand place of [[Pilgrimage|pilgrimage]] as mentioned above, but the title of Blood Red Builder would be a League national position, rather than an Ambition virtue position.
### The Question of [[Pride]]
* The prognosticators office has been approached to determine if this [[Opportunity|opportunity]] would still apply were Lorenzo recognised as an exemplar of [[Pride]]
Following enquiries, the Prognosticator's Office has confirmed that this [[Opportunity|opportunity]] would still be practical if Lorenzo were instead recognised as an exemplar of Pride. Obviously, the title of Blood Red Builder would then be appointed by the Pride assembly, rather than the Ambition assembly, and would inspire peoples' Pride in their nation and homes.
## A Well-Deserved Break
* Graciana will not be available to assist the prognosticators office in the coming season
A member of Graciana's [[Family|family]], Ailande i Lòpez i [[Riqueza]] has informed her aunt that she intends to be wed at the forthcoming [[Autumn]] Equinox. Graciana has been granted leave from the prognosticators office by Gerard La Salle so that she may travel home to [[Madruga]] to oversee arrangements for the wedding. As a result she will not be available to assist the Imperial Senate with any [[Appraisal|appraisal]] they require in the coming season after the Autumn Equinox.
She will return to work as normal in time for the following summit, so she can be requested by the Senate from the [[Winter]] Solstice 384YE onwards.
## Limited [[Opportunity]]
* Both opportunities remain available until the end of the Summer Solstice 385YE
Both opportunities - the chance to expand the University of Temeschwar and create the Master of Rings, and the opportunity to recognise Lorenzo Macelliao von Temeschwar as an exemplar and commission an inspirational tomb - remain available until the end of the Summer Solstice 385YE. If the new faculty, or the inspirational tomb, have not been commissioned by that time, then the opportunity to do so will have been lost.
## Further Reading
* Commission - An explanation of how commissions work
* You'll recognise yourself - Wind of Fortune discussing Lorenzo Macelliao von Temeschwar