---
IgnoreLinking: False
Tags: ['Recent-History', '380YE-Spring', 'Winds-of-Fortune']
Title: Dark skies
aliases: ['Dark_skies']
draft: False
revision_date: 2023-12-29 18:06:51+00:00
revision_id: 106694
---

"What is going on here?" Papiria demanded, furious. The representative of the Imperial School of Medicine bobbed in her wake, a disapproving frown creasing his features.
The patient continued to writhe on the floor, despite the best efforts of the two sentinels attempting to restrain her. Cella of Imperus had been slight even before her sojourn at the [[Spire]] of Twisting Shadows, yet the two muscular orderlies struggled to keep hold of her. She arched her back, spit, tried to sink her teeth into the hand of the woman desperately trying to keep her from tearing her own eyes out. Cella's face was a mask of blood - Papiria could not tell if the damage to her cheek indicated she had succeeded in destroying the left one.
"I don't know, ma'am," Healer Escius wrung his hands, hovering [[On the other side|on the other side]] of the struggle, pale and obviously beside himself with worry. Splashed droplets of fresh, crimson blood cut across the front of his pastel yellow robe. 
"Please," he implored the orderlies. "Be careful. She is very weak." 
Belying his words, Cella of Imperus managed to tear free from one of the two sentinels, and ranked her fingernails across the face of the man holding her right arm. To his credit, he kept his grip, turning his face away from her to protect his eyes. Fresh bark began to knit across the gouges in his cheek as a third [[Warden|warden]] dashed past Papiria and grabbed Cella's flailing legs. With the three orderlies working together they finally managed to restrain Cella. Healer Escius immediately knelt beside her, laying his hand on her damaged face and speaking healing words with a confidence that did not match his wretched expression.
As [[Naga|naga]] woman ushered her guest back down the corridor, she could hear Escius attempting to soothe his patient.
"I'm very sorry," said Papiria turning back to the visitor from [[Anvil]]. "But you must understand that some of our patients have been badly damaged by their experiences, and the risk of violence is unfortunately not one we are unfamiliar with."
The [[Chirurgeon|chirurgeon]] nodded, but his gaze lingered on the confused jumble of bodies behind them. The [[Anvil]] Hospital and Imperial School of [[Magic]] was grateful to the [[Spire]] of Twisting Shadows for the regular donation of [[Herbs|herbs]] that Speaker Origen had helped arrange ... but it was clear he did not approve of the treatment of their patients.
## Overview
### New Star
Towards the end of last year, astronomancers from several observatories in [[Urizen]], [[Varushka]], and [[The Brass Coast]] reported sighting a new star. It is a tiny speck of light, too small to be seen with the naked eye, that drifts behind [[The Wanderer]] as that baleful star traces its unpredictable pattern across the [[Night|night]] sky. [[The Conclave]] has yet to reach a consensus as to what the new star should be called. While a suggestion from the [[Urizen]] [[Merrow]] Kyra Halcyon that it be called "the Pilgrim" was discussed, it was ultimately discarded. This has led some [[Mystics|mystics]] to suggest that this new star might in some way resonate with [[The Unnamed|the unnamed]] - the esoteric twenty-seventh [[Rune|rune]].
The number of people who require treatment for psychological ailments has continued to noticeably climb. From [[Bregasland]] comes a story of a ''fendweller'' imprisoning two of her neighbours in a lightless pit as part of an incomprehensible study of fear. In [[Temeschwar]], a production of "The Swords of Absalom" ends in tragedy when it is discovered that the entire cast has been slain by the [[Troupe|troupe]] master; as he is carried away he rants and raves about the ghosts of dead actors possessing the living and plotting terrible destruction. A circle of [[Kallavesi]] mystics poison themselves in the marshes of [[Kallavesa]], leaving behind only a hastily scrawled note to explain their intention to "merge with the cosmos." No part of [[The Empire|the Empire]] remains untouched by this outbreak of mania, and ship captains returning from far off lands and [[Faraden]] merchants alike confirm that while [[The Empire|the Empire]] is not unique in experiencing this unsettling phenomenon it seems to be far less prevalent outside their borders. 
### Blazing Mirror
With the [[Assistance|assistance]] of Camillius of Endsmeet, a group of respected scholars from the ''Observatory of the Blazing Mirror'' in Iteri have constructed a device they are confident [[Will|will]] allow them to get a closer look at the star. In [[Recognition|recognition]] of their generous [[Benefactor|benefactor]], the new tower constructed to hold the device has been named the "Camillius Steeple". Furthermore, [[Arbiter]] Horace has invited their patron to give the keynote speech at the unveiling ceremony during the [[Spring]] Equinox.
In addition to Camillius, it is expected that the archmages, the grandmasters, and several other prominent guests [[Will|will]] be in attendance. The stargazers of the Blazing Mirror are confident that an event of such fateful magnitude [[Will|will]] guarantee a conjunction on the [[Sentinel Gate]] - after all, is that potent device not crowned with an image of [[The Wanderer|the Wanderer]]? 
### Absent Phoenix
The new star is not the only disturbance in the heavens. The astronomantic [[Constellation|constellation]] of [[The Phoenix]] appears to be fading. 
While it is one of the most easily recognisable arrangements of stars in the night sky, scholars all across [[The Empire|the Empire]] have reported a growing uncertainty as to precisely which stars make up its form, and whether there are nine, ten, or eleven of them. When actually looking at it, the answer is clear ... but the more time elapses from actually seeing it, the more they begin to doubt. The phenomenon is especially pronounced among the mundane population - those who cannot work [[Magic|magic]] are finding it increasingly difficult to trace the stars that form the constellation, and even some astronomancers are finding it harder and harder to explain what [[The Phoenix|the Phoenix]] represents.
### [[Dark skies|Dark Skies]]
While the apparent fading of [[The Phoenix|the phoenix]] is worrying, and the appearance of a new star appears full of portent, it is as nothing to the concern that faces the inhabitants of both [[Skarsind]] and [[Holberg]]. The night skies over the new homeland of the [[Imperial Orcs]] and over the recently [[Liberated|liberated]] [[League]] city are entirely absent. By [[Day|day]], nothing is different. By night, however, the skies are empty - save or the moon. That pale satellite drifts serenely in a lake of inky blackness that stretches from horizon to horizon, broken only by clouds. 
[[The Empire]] is familiar with the Penumbral Veil of course - but that [[Ritual|ritual]] warps the skies, it does not empty them.
## Significance
### [[The Phoenix]]
The constellation of [[The Phoenix|the Phoenix]] continues to wane. It is becoming increasingly difficult to use the Phoenix in ritual [[Magic|magic]] - while it still performs its function, and [[The Law|the law]] "''things learn''" is still powerful and apparent, it requires considerable extra effort to evoke the power of this constellation. Anyone who feels a strong attachment to, or identification with, this constellation [[Will|will]] find themselves prone to periods of listlessness and uncharacteristic introspection. How you wish to roleplay these elements is entirely up to you.
In addition, the creation of an [[Arcane projection|arcane projection]] has become a little more difficult. This does not change the mechanical details of how an [[Arcane projection|arcane projection]] is prepared or used, but anyone who creates one during the Spring Equinox experiences a ''[[Roleplaying effect|roleplaying effect]]'': they are tired and drained, as if they have spent several hours performing strenuous physical and mental exercise. This condition persists for at least an hour unless removed in some fashion (such as by the boundless energy of the [[Briar]] [[Lineage|lineage]]).
The exception to this roleplaying effect are the people of [[Wintermark]]. For some reason - nobody has yet ascertained why - Winterfolk magicians seem to be able to create arcane projections without any additional effort.
### The Nameless Star
The New Star remains unnamed. As before, the [[Imperial Conclave]] might choose to formally name it with a [[Declaration]] of [[Concord]].
It remains invisible to the naked eye, but anyone with an astronomantic [[Background|background]] is free to roleplay that they have seen it themselves - a tiny spark of light that clearly follows in the wake of [[The Wanderer]]. Imperial telescopes are unable to make out much more than this - even its crimson hue may merely be a consequence of its proximity to [[The Wanderer|the Wanderer]]. As with all other stars, the new star is outside the reach of mortal [[Magic|magic]] - it cannot be scried upon, and it cannot be directly affected with known ritual [[Magic|magic]].
Hopefully, the Observatory of the Blazing Mirror [[Will|will]] be able to uncover more about the provenance and meaning of this unsettling visitor to the night skies.
### Unsettled Nights
If your character suffers from any sort of mental or emotional ailment, they may choose to have that condition intensify during the coming event. Any lineaged character may also wish to review the section on [[The wiki|the wiki]] regarding roleplaying their [[Lineage|lineage]], with particular regard to the final bullet point on "''descent into madness''".
If you do choose to explore this [[Opportunity|opportunity]], however, you should remain mindful of Profound Decisions' rules on equality and diversity.
### The Hooded Eyes of the [[Naga]]
Beyond even the effect of these unsettled nights, any character of the [[Naga]] [[Lineage|lineage]] who has spent extensive time in either [[Holberg]] or [[Skarsind]] will find that their natural urge towards subtlety and secretiveness is greatly strengthened. [[Naga]] in [[General|general]] relish being mysterious and secretive, but those who have spent an extended period beneath the inky black skies of [[The League|the League]] city or the new homelands of the [[Imperial Orcs]] may actually need to make a significant effort of will to answer direct questions or be honest about their intentions.