---
IgnoreLinking: False
Tags: ['Recent-History', '385YE-Spring', 'Winds-of-Fortune']
Title: Fade out again
aliases: ['Fade_out_again']
draft: False
revision_date: 2023-06-07 12:20:48+00:00
revision_id: 101950
---

Maria kept the spear light in her hands, ready to strike at a moment's notice. It was a crude weapon, no match for a [[Bravo|bravo]]'s blade, but it was the perfect weapon for this job. She'd seen the beast that Anton had killed, and it was big and thick-skinned. It had come racing towards out of the undergrowth, a mass of [[Tusks|tusks]] and claws. Anton had stabbed it with rapier and it hadn't stopped it. Hell he'd said it barely slowed down. If he hadn't had help on hand to paralyse the monster he might not have come out of that alive. No, she might be feeling a bit self-conscious, but a boar-spear was just the right weapons for a job like this. 
"What kind of [[Bravo|bravo]] are you? Do you even known how to use that spear?" Honour asked, her voice dripping with contempt.
"What?" She spun on her heel to face her companion, still holding the clumsy weapon in front of her, so that it narrowly missed the Dawnish [[War|war]] [[Witch|witch]] she'd be partnered with. How dare she! - the bloody woman had been getting on her nerves all [[Day|day]], with her airs and graces. "If you don't like [[The Way|the way]] I protect you, maybe you should find a different bodyguard" she shouted.
The Dawnish noble looked shocked - presumably nobody in her house ever spoke to her that way. "What are you talking about, you're the one who claimed I wasn't keeping up?" she shouted.
"I said no such bloody thing" Maria shouted right back at her. She gripped her spear tightly. If this stuck-up bloody noble didn't watch her [[Language|language]] she was going to show her just how good she was with this spear...
## Overview
After the true [[Liao|liao]] [[Consecration|consecration]] of Ratibor's Tomb, [[The Empire|the Empire]] decided they had finally had enough of the [[Vyig]]. Their involvement in the Bite trade and the rumours of connections with the [[Druj]] were the last straw for some. Ratibor's greatest accomplishment was to drive the [[Vyig]] out of [[Temeschwar]] - time to do it again.
The influential priest, Irada von [[Temeschwar]], raised a [[Mandate|mandate]] in [[The League|the League]] [[Assembly]] calling on citizens to lift up the torch of [[Ambition]] and by its light root out the corruption that infests the cities of [[The League|the League]]. It has long been known that the Vyig have deep roots in [[Varushka]], they have been driven from the cities before and they have endured because they had bolt holes across the north to flee to. This time [[Will|will]] be different however, this time Velko Perunovich Razoradze asked the Varushkan [[Assembly]] to send Vaclav Mladenovich Kosti to send the Vyig out into the [[Night|night]]. This time there [[Will|will]] be nowhere to run to.
SOP|statement=The Vyig are an insidious corruption within [[The Empire|the Empire]]. It may seem there is no answer to their wickedness, between the most impenetrable [[Forest|forest]] may fall one tree at a time. We send Irada von Temeschwar with 75 doses of [[Liao|liao]] to light a torch, use it to find the places where the Vyig lair, and finally finish what Ratibor started.|assembly=League|by=Irada von Temeschwar Judgement|vote=[[Greater majority|Greater Majority]] 285-10|when=[[Winter]] Solstice 384YE
SOP|statement=The Vyig are an insidious corruption within the Empire. It may seem that there is no answer to their wickedness, but even the most impenetrable [[Forest|forest]] may fall one tree at a time. We send Vaclav Mladenovich Kosti with 100 doses of liao to light a torch, use it to find the places where the Vyig lair, and finally finish what Ratibor started.|vote=Greater Majority 150 to 0|when=Winter Solstice 384YE|by=Velko Perunovich Razoradze
A [[Statement of Principle|statement of principle]] by Valentin von Temeschwar urging [[League]] citizens to "''welcome back those who lost their Way with the Vyig, and are willing to balance their ledgers''" has been broadly ignored by the people of the League. The sentiment is fine, but in the light of Ratibor's [[Burning|burning]] torches it is seen as just that. Sentiment. The [[Boyar]] of Temeschwar would never have accepted someone's ''word'' that they were willing to put their life of organised crime behind them; he would have thrown them on the midden heap with the rest of the night soil. There is little appetite for mercy among those fighting the Vyig.
The Vyig are not the only target for those inspired by Ratibor's [[Ambition]] to drive out his enemies. The situation with monsters in the woods of Metri has grown steadily worse, to the point where it has become intolerable. The discovery that these creatures are more than likely heralds of the Hag Queen was the final straw for many. Ratibor would never have tolerated these monsters infesting his dominion, and neither should anyone else.
## Pitched [[Battles]]
* Sorensdromen, Travy Mudrosti, and Drusilla's Obelus are destroyed in the conflict with the vyig
With support from two national assemblies and a score of independent military units, the [[Magistrates|magistrates]] and their allies are able to instigate a thorough search for the Vyig. Witnesses are questions and every lead is followed up. At first people are reluctant to talk, but as word of the mandates spreads, it slowly becomes clear that the mood is changing. The Vyig have long relied on their reputation for brutal retaliation against anyone who crossed them - they cover their tracks with fear and intimidation. It works well while people are afraid, but fear is a fickle ally. Once people start to suspect that the Vyig might not be in any position to mete out punishment to those who cross them, their weapon turns on them.
When the dam breaks it unleashes a tidal wave of accusations that flush them out of every nook and cranny in the League. For the most part, the magistrates carry out their raids at [[Dawn|dawn]], the better to catch the Vyig sleeping in their beds. But there is are not one but two running [[Battles|battles]] through the streets of Temeschwar and a bar brawl in [[Holberg]] descends into a street battle between two rival gangs of [[Bravos|bravos]] that turns bloody for the best part of a week, as each accuses the other of buying bite from the Vyig. Some of the Vyig try to flee into the vales of [[Varushka]], but they find no succour in the hard north. Vaclav's work has ensured that every Varushka door is barred against them. The Vyig and those suspected of harbouring them are given a last meal of bread and cheese and turned out on the road. 
The conflict does not pass entirely without consequence. It turns out the Vyig have been using the Sorensdromen, a forest on the outskirts of [[Holberg]] as a dead-drop for a hefty supply of bite they are smuggling out of [[The Barrens|the Barrens]]. When the magistrates go to arrest them, a [[Fight|fight]] ensues and the flame from one of the torches carried by a soldier supporting the raid catches. The forest quickly catches fire, and though no lives are lost, Sorensdromen is burned to the ground and completely destroyed. The Vyig are not content to go into the Labryinth without fighting back, and the Vereski [[Stzena]] are attacked and slaughtered in retaliation after two of their number are hanged by the local magistrate.
Worse, it soon transpires that a number of legitimate enterprises have been compromises by the Vyig. Several highly reputable businesses are discovered to be fronts used to launder criminal proceeds by the Vyig. They have also discovered to be using [[Herb|herb]] gardens as fronts to smuggle bite into the Empire, or to find ready customers for it. Travy Mudrosti and two other [[Herb|herb]] gardens in [[Karsk]] and Holberg are razed by the Vyig rather than allow the contents to fall into the hands of the magistrates.
For the most part these are old and long abandoned resources, but in at least one case an Imperial [[Sinecure|sinecure]] has been shamelessly abused by the Vyig. There is absolutely no evidence that any of the citizens involved knew what was happening, but it seems the Vyig have been using Drusilla's Obelus to smuggle bite into the Empire, almost from the day it was built. Like Travy Mudrosti, the Obelus is burned to the ground by the Vyig, in an apparent attempt to cover their trail.
Many of the raids on the Vyig yield a surprising number of connections between them and the [[Druj]]. It appears that the Vyig have been smuggling bite into the Empire from Druj lands for some time now. The ruthless criminals appear to have no qualms about dealing with the Empire's mortal enemies.
### Morning's Echo Says We've Sinned (Conjunction)
* A number of Vyig are fleeing Holberg after robbing a group of Sand Fishers
* The Vyig were spotted joining with Druj by the Sand Fisher scout ''Grey Tooth''
* The [[Sentinel Gate]] will open at 20:30 on Saturday to Elsbeth's Well in Utterlund
* The ''[[Merchant Prince of Misericorde Market]]'' is responsible for recovering Misericorde's Blade from the Vyig
The Sand Fishers have requested [[Assistance|assistance]] after a number of humans managed to steal Misericorde's Blade; an item of significant importance to the Sand Fishers. The group had arranged a meeting with the Sand Fishers to discuss an ongoing deal exchanging steel arrow points for dried and salted fish. An eagle eyed Sand Fisher spotted a Vyig tattoo but not before the thieves managed to steal Misericorde's Blade. The Vyig fled, hotly pursued by the vengeful Sand Fishers. Their scout ''Grey Tooth'', tracked them as far as Elsbeth's Well in Utterlund, but they gave up the pursuit after the Vyig were observed meeting up with orcs of [[The Mallum|the Mallum]]. 
''Misericorde's Blade'' was the very first weapon bought by one of the Sand Fishers when they first arrived in Misericorde. It has served as a symbol of resistance against the Druj, of the promise of what will happen if the orcs of [[The Mallum|the Mallum]] return in an attempt to prey on their former subjects. The Sand Fishers have asked for the [[Merchant Prince of Misericorde Market]] to organise the recovery of Misericorde's Blade from the Vyig thieves. They have promised the [[Merchant Prince]] that they will pay well for its return.
There will be a stiff resistance from the Vyig and the Druj; a combined force of troops drawn from the [[Arkad|arkad]]. Given that this is a direct plea to the Merchant Prince of Misericorde Market the responsibility for this conjunction lies with the current Merchant Prince; Jonah Yakovitch.
### We're Victims Of The Night (Conjunction)
* A group of Vyig are making their last stand near the ruins of Drusilla's Obelus
* The Vyig have met up with a group of Druj who crossed the border into [[The Barrens|the Barrens]]
* [[The Sentinel]] [[Gate]] will open at 21:30 on Saturday to Drusilla's [[Farm]] in the Morass
* With the Obelus destroyed, ''Irada von Temeschwar'' is responsible for dealing with the Vyig
A tip-off alerts the magistrates to the fact that the Vyig have been using Drusilla's Obelus in the Morass to smuggle bite and other addictive [[Herbs|herbs]] and substances over the border into the Empire. This trade has been allegedly been going on since the Obelus was created, apparently without anyone at [[Anvil]] being any the wiser. A magistrate and his entourage were sent to investigate but they were forced to withdraw when it becomes clear that nobody actually working at the Obelus answers to Lukash any more, even though he is the citizen who is nominally responsible for the [[Sinecure|sinecure]]. The vyig destroy the Obelus, [[Burning|burning]] it to the ground to cover their tracks and then fled the area.
Before they were forced to retreat the magistrates saw the group meeting up with a gang of Druj who had crossed the border, apparently looking for escorts as they travel through The Barrens to the port of Leen in the Mallum. The vyig alone would be easy pickings, but with the Druj protecting them, a significant military force is needed to capture or killing the fleeing criminals. With the Obelus now destroyed, the civil service has assigned responsibility for overseeing the conjunction and dealing with the Vyig to the priest who carried out the [[Mandate|mandate]] in the League; Irada von Temeschwar.
### Participation
* Any citizen who is a member of the [[Anvil]] militia or whose [[Military unit|military unit]] took the choice to [[Fight|fight]] the vyig is free to roleplay that they have taken part in the conflict with the vyig
Any member of the Anvil militia or any citizen whose [[Military unit|military unit]] took the [[Opportunity|opportunity]] to attack the vyig is free to roleplay that they took part in the actions against the criminals this season and is free to create their own stories of their escapades, within reason. Stories involving hunting down criminals in Temeschwar, Holberg, any of the territories of Varushka or the surrounding lands are all ideal. The Vyig are ruthless criminals who extort, intimidate, and bully their way to power, they are an [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Organized_crime|organized crime] syndicate. They control the bite trade into the Empire through their extensive contacts with their Druj allies. A story involving a desperate fight against hardended criminals and their Druj allies making a stand together would be appropriate.
If your character has regular income (mana, money, ingots, measures, or herbs) then you are free to roleplay that some or all of these valuables were taken from the Druj allies of the Vyig.
## Well-Gotten Gains
* The magistrates have confiscated the deeds for two prominent businesses in Temeschwar, one in Holberg and a large forest and a [[Herb garden|herb garden]] in Varushka
* Any citizen of the League who wishes to exchange their [[Resource|resource]] for a [[Business|business]] can do so without having to pay two crowns
As part of their investigation the magistrates have uncovered a number of businesses that were being used as fronts for Vyig activity. Those that were used purely to sell bite and other illegal substances have been closed down, but many were legitimate businesses that were simply used to launder the proceeds of their criminal activities. Where it is clear that the owners were working with the vyig, these businesses have been confiscated and are now in need of new ownership.
To help the dispose of the assets, the magistrates have asked Irada von Temeschwar to deal with the larger more prominent businesses. There are three in total, a rank four business and a rank two business in Temeschwar, as well as a rank three business in Holberg. As the priest who carried out the mandate, the deeds of ownership have been given to Irada - they may deal with them as they see fit at the coming summit. Any citizen who receives one of the deeds can register it with the Civil Service to take ownership of the business without paying the normal two crowns fee.
In addition to these businesses, the magistrates have recovered a rank three forest and a rank three [[Herb garden|herb garden]], both in [[Karsk]]. These were entirely legitimate businesses but both were vyig owned until [[The Law|the law]] stepped in. As the priest who carried out the mandate, the deeds of ownership have been given to Vaclav Mladenovich Kosti - to deal with at the coming summit.
In addition to these prominent resources, there were countless minor businesses that were either owned by the Vyig or being used by their members as fronts for other crimes. With the Vyig definitely out of the picture, any [[Law|law]]-abiding citizen could request to take over one of these businesses. As a result, any Imperial citizen can chose to request a new business in Holberg or Temeschwar without the normal two crown [[Cost|cost]].
## Metri
At the recent Solstice the Empire also resolved to finally settle the problems plaguing the woods of Metri. Ever since the Winter 380YE, something has been stalking the area attacking anyone that brought violence against another person in the woods. Sometimes they were driven off, but more often those they attacked were brutally slain, their body rent limb from limb by tooth and claw. The situation has continued to deteriorate for some time and recently an entire caravan was lost. The situation came to a head
For the moment, though, there has been no disruption to trade with the [[Thule]] - something that a small number of people find a little troubling. The northern orcs pass through Metri without any concern and when queried about it they appear confused. They have no problems because they are always sure to propitiate the ''Mirror of Spite'' whenever her servants appear. They hadn't mentioned it previously because they'd just assumed that the presence of the creatures was part of some deal the Temeschwari had made with the Queen [[The Thrice-cursed Court]] and did not wish to pry. 
Fabio Costas de [[Sarvos]] raised a mandate in the League [[Synod]] to urge people to take torches from Ratibor's tomb and burn the creatures out. It looked set to pass easily, but at the last minute the priest opted to withdraw the [[Judgement|judgement]]. Instead [[The Conclave|the Conclave]] took charge of the situation and asked the [[Rod and Shield]] to send a group of battle mages to confront [[Skathe]]'s minions and banish them back to the Winter [[Realm|realm]]. The heralds are a clear threat to the Empire, so dealing with them is firmly within the purview of the Order. Rather than an angry mob, the Empire, perhaps wisely, has elected to send a group of battle-hardened magicians to deal with the servants of the Despiteful Mirror.
### A Disturbing Encounter
* Metri has lost the haunted quality and the disruption has ended for now
* The Grand Enchantrix will resume her work in the future if she is not dealt with
The first creatures encountered in the woods of Metri prove to be no match for the [[War|war]] witches, runesmiths and battlemages that march beneath the [[Banner|banner]] of the [[Rod and Shield]]. Rabid, feral beasts, charging desperately to attack with claws and teeth may pose a terrible threat to merchants and their caravan guards, but they are no match at all for a coordinated attack by the Empire's finest [[Heroes|heroes]]. The magicians have to be careful not to allow the bear like monsters to get to close, but it is clear these beasts lack the intelligence needed to defeat an enemy who can paralyse them with a single touch.
Working systematically, the Rod and Shield, sweep the forests, slaughtering the Hag Queen's beasts one by one until none remain. The magicians are understandably jubilant at this victory, their success has ensured that Metri is no longer haunted and the disruption to trade and commerce in the area is ended.
However it soon becomes clear that these monsters are simply guards of some kind to protect the real horrors. The day after the last of the beasts are slain, a group of magicians are "attacked" by three servants of the Despiteful Mirror. These vile creatures, or "''Spites''" are armed not with teeth and claws but with spells and weapons ordering the Empire to withdraw in the name of the Grand Enchantrix of Metri. They unleash a constant stream of insults and vile epithets at the magicians as they hector them constantly. Rather than engage, the magicians fell back, judging it better to return with intelligence about this new enemy than risk the unknown.
The Rod and Shield ascertain that this Grand Enchantrix is the one who sired or unleashed the twisted beasts that were haunting the woods and attacking caravans. The order have definitely dealt with these monsters and ended the threat they posed, but if the herald created or summoned these monsters, she can almost certainly rebuild her forces given time. That could take a while, but even so, it would be better to deal with the Enchantrix as soon as possible, so that the Order's work is not undone. A conjunction to Agnieszka's Grove is discovered as part of these preparations - it offers by far the best chance to deal with this powerful herald and her supporters.
### Waiting for so long (Conjunction)
* Only the Grand Enchantrix and their Spites remain active in Metri
* The [[Sentinel]] Gate will open at 21:15 on Friday to Agnieszka's Grove in Metri
* The ''[[Grandmaster]] of the Rod and Shield'' is responsible for clearing the last heralds of Skathe from Metri
Though the actions of the Rod and Shield have cleared the twisted beasts from the dark woods of Metri, a group of heralds in service to the Hag Queen yet remain. The actions of the Rod and Shield has pushed the ''Grand Enchantrix'' and her retinue of Spites to a small grove of trees where they can be dealt with once and for all. Great care should be taken however, this band of monsters and malefactors possess weapons and [[Magic|magic]] of their own, including baneful powers that have left a swathe of cursed [[Bishops|bishops]] and cisibei in their wake.
Given that this has come about due to the actions of the Rod and Shield it is the responsibility of the [[Grandmaster]] of the Rod and Shield: Sakari Nightscale to deal with the threat.
### Participation
* Any member of the Rod and Shield is free to roleplay that some or all the regular income they receive this season has come from valuables recovered from the monsters that haunted the woods of Metri
Any member of the Rod and Shield is free to roleplay that they took part in the actions of the order over the past season in Temeschwar and is free to create their own stories of their escapades, within reason. A story involving a desperate fight against a feral beast where you were close to death but for the aid of your allies or your magical might, or a close call run in with the dangerous Spite heralds of Skathe (though not the Grand Enchantrix) would be appropriate.
If your character has regular income (mana, money, ingots, measures, or herbs) then you are free to roleplay that some or all of these valuables were taken from the monsters you have been clearing out of Temeschwar.