---
IgnoreLinking: false
Tags:
- Recent-History
- 385YE-Autumn
- Winds-of-Fortune
Title: Hierarchs of sea and sky
aliases:
- Hierarchs_of_sea_and_sky
draft: false
revision_date: 2023-12-21 16:08:37+00:00
revision_id: 106538
---

The herald blinked three of its eyes meditatively.
"You ask a difficult question," it said slowly. "You must understand that the hierarchs - the Eternals - do not view things [[The Way]] you do. Your lives are so short. Flicker! Here you are! Flicker! Now you are gone! Flicker! Now everyone who ever knew you is gone!"
They snapped their long, multijointed fingers as they spoke, little sparks dancing in the air for a moment and then vanishing. The creature spoke matter-of-factly, as if discussing the weather.
"To the hierarchs, your cities pulse, growing and receding like living things. So do your nations. Why it was less than forty decades ago that your Empire has barely a handful of quarrelsome nations beset by enemies. Sixty decades before that, and your own ancient forebears ruled here, before they too were gone. Flicker!"
It snapped its fingers, and this time the sparks were dUll copper that faded to dark green just before they vanished.
"The hierarchs are not like the others you've told me of. They do not contend against one another. On the rare occasions there are disagreements between them, they are resolved through calm negotiation. Or so it seems to me. They will not [[Fight]] the creature you call Cold Sun for you. Some of them might offer aid, as appropriate to their nature, but I do not think even the Hierarch Zakal will do battle on your behalf. It is not among the things that happen, I do not think. But what do I know? I am only one creature, and my perspective is limited."
The vizier closed all its eyes at once, looking inWards. When it opened them again, a slightly smile touched its thin, blue lips. 
"Sometimes the chaos of the future narrows down to a limited range of choices. This is such a time. You will overcome this, or you will be destroyed, or scattered, or changed fundamentally. But if you do burn, if you do fall, then even after you are long gone and everyone else has forgotten you were ever here, the hierarchs will remember you. Perhaps there is some comfort in that?"
There was little comfort in it. The herald reached across cautiously, and laid three fingers on her companion's wrist.
"Here and now," it said earnestly. "You are alive. We are here. Your [[Family]] are celebrating. Can that, for now, not be enough?"
audio|link=https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WwBsXl7PkIo
## Overview
* [[Bright Eyes Gleam in the Depths]] has been invoked in [[The Empire]]
* You can learn about the Magical effects of the Imperial [[Enchantment]] in the [[Shining like fire]] wind of fortune
As Bright Eyes Gleam in the Depths sweeps across the Empire, it temporarily Empowers weak Day [[Regio]], and enCourages the eternals of that [[Realm]] to involve themselves in Imperial affairs. These effects combine to cause Day eternals who are not marked as enemies of the Empire to send heralds to Visit Imperial citizens. All of those eternals save one have also presented offers of boons, or made set forth proposals for ways they might help the Empire, especially those who are considered allies of the Empire by the [[Imperial Conclave]].
Of course, one [[Eternal]] of the Day Day realm - the Cold Sun - has reacted to the power of the ritual by sending large numbers of its soldiers to kill and destroy (as detailed in the [[To the last syllable]] wind of [[War]]).The rest of ''this'' wind of fortune deals with the results of opening the Day regio all over The Empire, and the ways the other eternals have responded.
Unless specifically mentioned otherwise these opportunities are only available during the Autumn Equinox.
## [[Kimus]]
* Kimus has used the power of Bright Eyes Gleam in the Depths to send heralds all over The Empire to observe seemingly unconnected [[Events]] of variable import
The eternal Kimus has not always been on good relations with The Empire, but it seems that it holds no grudges. It is the present that it is concerned with, and not the past, after all. During the last three months, ''viziers'' have been encountered in every Imperial territory, simply watching things. They observe events of obvious significance - there are stories of them calmly watching fights between Imperial soldiers and those of Cold Sun without making any effort to aid either side for example. But they have also been reported at weddings and funerals, standing calmly outside houses where children are being born or people are on their deathbeds noting all the comings and goings. One stands in the corner of a League tavern for two weeks, exchanging polite words with the patrons, and occasionally nodding, before suddenly leaving with nobody any the wiser. Another settles itself on a stile in [[Segura]] and watches a flock of sheep for a month, encouraging the shepherds to share their songs and stories with it. There is no threat to them, but the feeling of being watched still makes people uneasy.
Kimus has also dispatched one of its senior viziers- a creature named ''Fidinda Fenestro'' - to make several offers of boons to Imperial magicians. The vizier suggests that Kimus is particularly pleased at the moment because the Empire is, metaphorically, providing it with front-row seats to observe some truly fascinating and important events and it would very much appreciate the Opportunity to continue doing so. It's also been very pleased by the reception its viziers have received when they have visited [[Anvil]] recently to discuss ethereal matters of death and the soul; its apparently looking forward to seeing if they bear any fruit any time in the next few centuries.
### Eyes on the Empire
* Kimus is focusing its attention on the Imperial regio
* Imperial magicians can draw on some of its power to perform [[Rituals]] related to revelation, force, and perfection in return for weltsilver
During the Autumn Equinox, Kimus is focusing a significant portion of its attention on the Empire (not ''all'' of its attention obviously; it never focuses ''all'' of its attention on any one thing). Specifically, it is observing the regio, fascinated apparently by the rituals Imperial magicians perform during the seasonal summits. ''Fidinda Fenestro '' has made the Empire's magicians aware of one opportunity this attention provides.
During the Autumn Equinox, any magician versed in [[Day magic]] can request that Kimus provides a fraction of its boundless energy and force to the performance of certain [[Day rituals]]. In return, Kimus will claim a small amount of Weltsilver, a material the eternals of Day are well known to value.
To invoke this boon, an Imperial magician can use Weltsilver in place of crystal mana when performing certain rituals. Two ingots of weltsilver substitute for one crystal mana, up to the usual amount of mana the magician can use based on their ranks of Day lore. The weltsilver is presented to Kimus at the beginning of the performance; a formal expression inviting the eternal to witness the ritual and take the weltsilver in return for providing magical energy is required. The weltsilver is consumed at the end of the ritual.
Only certain rituals can be empowered in this way; rituals of revelation, force, and perfection.
* Rituals of Revelation: [[Bright Lantern of Ophis]], [[Clear Lens of the Eternal River]], [[Eye of the High Places]], Eyes of the Soul's Past, [[Eyes of the Sun and Moon]], and [[Hakima]]'s Glass. 
* Rituals of Force: [[Piercing Light of Revelation]], Kimus' Glaring Eye, [[Irresistible Stance of Force and Focus]]
* Rituals of Perfection: [[Sign of Aesh]], [[Crystaline Focus of Aesh]], [[Alignment of Mind and Blade]], [[Transcendent Mastery]], [[Blades of Clear Sight]], [[Arete and the Fields of War]]
The boon can ''only'' be used with Formulaic rituals – it can't be used to provide power to an [[Arcane projection]]. It's possible that certain other rituals not on the list above, and in neither Imperial nor [[Urizen]] lore, might be able to draw on Kimus' power if they deal with the resonances of revelation, force, or perfection. OOC Note: If in doubt, ask a referee who will be able to check if the ritual should be able to draw on the weltsilver boon.
### Crystal Weapons
* Kimus offers aid against Cold Sun
The ''Unblinking Eye'' will not directly oppose Cold Sun but that does not mean she has no aid to offer. The idea of a world devoid of life is unpalatable to the ''[[Seer]] Clad in Veils of Light''. One of the known boons Kimus offers are crystalline rods or staves that grant master of violent energy, such as that used in the [[Repel]] incantation. Such implements are considered powerful boons and are often given only in return for a significant gift of weltsilver, a substance which Kimus appears to value very highly.
During the Autumn Equinox, between the hours of sunrise and twilight on Saturday (before 19:30), any Imperial magician may come to the Imperial regio with a mundane rod, staff, piece of [[Mage]] armour, or a piece of jewellery bearing an eye or sphere. They will also need a bounty of Weltsilver depending on which of Kimus' boons they are seeking. If they present the item, cast Hakima's Glass on it, and as part of the performance formally request that “''The Unblinking Eye gaze upon this weapon, and grant a fraction of its power so that it may be used to turn aside a world without wonder''” then Kimus will infuse the object with a fragment of the powerful force that roils within it, transforming it into a [[Magic]] item.
* A piece of jewellery can be infused with Kimus' power for 5 ingots of weltsilver. The jewellery must be clEarly marked with an eye motif, or set with a spherical gem or piece of crystal. Provided it meets this criteria, Kimus will infuse it with power so that the bonded wearer (as long as they are a magician) can use the talisman to cast the repel spell as if they knew it.
* Mage armour can be infused with power for 10 ingots of weltsilver. The resulting mage armour will allow a magician who wears it, and who knows the repel spell, to cast that spell twice each day without expending personal mana.
* Infusing a rod in this way requires 15 ingots of weltsilver. The rod will become the equivalent of a [[Stormweaver]], allowing the bonded wielder to Repel an opponent three times each day without using personal mana, even if they don't know the spell.
* Infusing a staff requires 30 ingots of weltsilver, and the implement will become capable of hurling a foe away four times each day, again without requiring personal mana or knowledge of the spell.
Kimus is only prepared to create nine of each item over the course of the Equinox. After that, the Hakima's Glass will have no effect (but the crystal mana will not be spent). One word of caution is raised by a member of the [[Shuttered Lantern]] in response to this offer. It's well known that Kimus observes the objects it creates and gifts to mortals, and is capable of seeing things that happen around them. If someone were to take up one of these offers, it might be an idea to ensure they are left safely in another room if someone were to be doing something they did not want ''She of the Irresistible Gaze'' to know about.
OOC Note: Because there is a limited number of ribbons, this opportunity can ''only'' be used at the Imperial Regio and the ribbons are available on a first-come first-serve basis. It's also important that the item be ''unribboned'' - this is what Kimus means by "mundane". If an item that already possesses a ribbon is presented, the attempt to [[Empower]] it will fail.
### A Record of Sins
* Kimus will be aware of every ritual performed using the Imperial Regio during the Autumn Equinox
The vizier mentions almost off-handedly that by focusing its attention on the Regio in this way, Kimus will be aware of every ritual performed there during the Equinox. It will know which magicians were involved, and when the ritual was performed. It is not prepared to share this information willy-nilly, but it does mean that if the [[Archmage of Day]] petitions Kimus for specific information about rituals performed during the Equinox, the eternal may be able to provide it.
There is one exception; Kimus is “passively” observing the Imperial regio rather than bringing the full force of her unblinking gaze to bear. As a consequence, the eternal will be [[Unable to see]] any magician who is shrouded with even the most basic casting of [[Masque of the Blinded Weaver]]. If every magician contributing to such a ritual is shrouded in this manner, the Eternal will be aware something has been done but not what it is or who was involved. OOC Note: If you perform a ritual at the Imperial regio while under the effect of ''Masque of the Blinded Weaver'', you should discreetly let the referee know so they can make a note of it, decreasing the likelihood that we will miss it if it becomes relevant.
After a little discussion with ''Fidinda Finestro'', the vizier has cautiously concurred that if the Imperial Conclave were to request that it did so, Kimus would be prepared to observe the Imperial regio on a more permanent basis. The special weltsilver boon requires more attention than it is willing to spare, but it could pay enough attention that it could answer questions about rituals performed there should the [[Archmage]] of Day request it. In return, the Eternal requires amity – indeed the request to watch the Imperial regio could be part of the wording of a [[Declaration]] of [[Alignment]] to that effect. It is not so much that Kimus desires “friendship”, explains ''Fidinda Finestro'' as that it finds the restrictions that neutrality places on its ability to observe events “first hand” within Imperial borders to be burdensome and would prefer the freedom that “mutual respect” would provide.
### A Boon of Finding
* Kimus offers a boon of finding to the Conclave
The burgeoning power of ''Bright Eyes'' is providing Kimus with plenty of opportunities to look at the Empire, and it seems the Eternal is quite pleased with this state of affairs. As a note of thanks, it has instructed its viziers to present a boon to the Imperial Conclave. During the Autumn Equinox, the Conclave may invoke a ''boon of finding''. Kimus will not request anything else in return for this boon.
To invoke it, a suitably worded Declaration of [[Concord]] must be presented and agreed on. The Declaration must begin with the words “We ask the Thousand Eyes of the Sun and Moon to find...” and then the name of a specific item or location that they want Kimus to turn its attention toward locating. Kimus will locate the item or place named, provided it exists, and share their findings with the Conclave at the Winter Solstice.
There are a few restrictions on this boon; Kimus will not use it to find a person, only an object or a place. The item or location must be one with a well-known name – it must be clear exactly what it is that is being located. The information about its location will be shared publicly – Kimus has no interest in propagating secrets. In the event that the Conclave upholds more than one such request, Kimus will hunt out the ''last'' item or place named, with respect to the Conclave's right to change its mind.
### An Orrery for the Watcher
* Kimus has offered to help reshape the powers of the [[Penumbral Watcher]]
Kimus is fascinated by the Tower of Light and Shadow – the tower overseen by the Penumbral Watcher. So much so that it has sent several heralds there during the last few months to exaMine the place, question the Stargazers who work there, and peer at every element of its operation and construction. A polite report of the stargazers reports that the heralds have made quite the nuisance of themselves. Now, Kimus presents the Imperial Conclave with a proposal.
The eternal believes the powers of the ''Tilphussian Reach '' are not being used to their fullest potential. It proposes that the focus on [[Night magic]] restricts the effectiveness of the tower too narrowly. With careful construction of an orrery of [[Mithril]] and Tempest jade the tower could be re-aligned with the Day realm. Kimus has provided the plans, and offered to have its viziers undertake the construction of the orrery if the Imperial Conclave wishes it to do so.
A Declaration of Concord accepting Kimus' offer would be sufficient to set the ball rolling. The Penumbral Watcher would need to gather the [[Materials]] required: 5 wains of mithril and 50 ingots of Tempest jade and ensure they are in their inventory after the Autumn Equinox. If both criteria are met, then the servants of Kimus will make the alterations to the tower.
The result would be that the Penumbral Watcher would no longer be able to refine shadow myrrh and the Hearthfire pools would dry up. Instead, they would be able to distil ''Noonlight Sunwater'' and ''Nightdark Moonwater'' – specially infused sea water containing motes of power drawn from the Day realm. The former would significantly strengthen any casting of Piercing Light of Revelation making it more capable of [[Burning]] through a shroud, while the latter would empower any Divination ritual that needs to overcome the strength of a magical shroud.
The Penumbral Watcher would lose access to the Shadow Well, but would gain a potent boon instead. Through the magic of the orrery, the stargazers who would continue to support the tower would be able to observe any and all Imperial Spy networks, provided at least one Of The WarBands assigned to support that network had been [[Enchanted]] with [[Sharp Eyes of the Corsair]] or a similar Day magic enchantment. The Penumbral Watcher would thus receive a copy of each spy report that such an enchanted unit had been involved in gathering.
To further increase the likelihood of the Penumbral Watcher being able to gain such information, Kimus would provide them with a ''Watchers' Glass'' once each season – a magical focus that supports the casting of Sharp Eyes of the [[Corsair]]. Obviously they would wish to keep one of these items for themselves, but the others they could distribute to other magicians as they saw fit.
It's interesting to note that even if Kimus were to be placed under enmity, these changes would persist. Only the regular gift of the ''Watchers' Glass'' is dependent on the active involvement of the Eternal itself.
### Peering at [[The Mallum]]
* Kimus will assist the Empire in gaining a map of the [[Salt Flats of Sanath]] 
The ''Mistress of the Watchers Star'' is aware that the Empire has constructed spy networks in the [[Sarangrave]] and the [[Forest of Ulnak]]. Like many of the Day eternals, Kimus dislikes the [[Druj]] – in particular because of their habit of raising shrouds over their territories and otherwise engaging in the worst kinds of skulduggery and secretive behaviour. There is one other territory of The Mallum, and the Empire does not currently have a [[Spy network]] there. Obviously, it would be a simple matter to build one – but Kimus is aware that the Empire is already engaged with the Druj there. With that in mind, the ''Endless Calulcatrix'' makes an offer to the Imperial Conclave.
If the [[Grandmaster]] of the Shuttered Lantern uses a Declaration of Concord to encourage the magicians of their order to scour the Salt Flats of Sanath, to gather information about the Druj heartlands, Kimus will send its heralds to support such an endeavour. The result would be a unique Spy network, one that would only be available after the Autumn Equinox, but to which Imperial citizens could assign their warband like any other such network. The main advantage would be that there would be no need for a [[Senate motion]], no need for [[Weirwood]], and crucially no need to wait three months while the spy network were built. On the other hand, while there would be no upkeep Costs, there would only be one opportunity to gather all the information needed about the territory. The Grandmaster will also receive a copy of the spy network report.
Kimus is aware that the [[Citadel Guard]] are currently in the Salt Flats and that the [[General]] may intend to engage the Technique of the Celestial Key in the Salt Flats this season. If the Shuttered Lantern accepts her boon, and the General of the Citadel Guard uses their special technique, the two will work in concert with one another. Every [[Military unit]] assigned to map the Salt Flats of Sanath will operate as if it were two ranks more effective (this will ''not'' stack with a use of shadow tar by the Penumbral Watcher unfortunately). The General will also receive a copy of the spy network report.
The offer is available only during the Autumn Equinox.
## [[Phaleron]]
* Phaleron remains a firm ally of the Empire, and has helped protect the Grand Library at CanterSpire from Cold Sun
Much like Kimus, the Celestial Librarian seems to consider itself on good terms with the Empire. It enjoys its amicable status with the Imperial Conclave, and it remains committed to supporting Urizen lore. As such, the surging power of Bright Eyes Gleam in the Depths has paradoxically had less impact on it than on some of the other eternals of the realm. It has still caused it to propose some boons it might give to its good friends in the Empire, however.
### The [[Gift of Knowledge]]
* Magicians who cast Gift of Knowledge at the Imperial Regio during the Autumn Equinox will receive small numbers of facts as well as prismatic ink
During the Autumn Equinox, Phaleron plans to show its appreciation for Imperial magicians, albeit in a slightly esoteric way. It has spent the last several months instructing some of its librarians to compile lists of interesting facts drawn from the books in [[The Library]], painstakingly copying them out. Things that might be of interest to mortal magicians. Whenever any magician casts Gift of Knowledge at the Imperial Regio during the Autumn Equinox to contribute something to [[The Celestial Library]], they will receive one of these parchments which contain one or more facts. They might not be ''useful'' facts, but they represent things the librarians of Phaleron consider of potential interest to mortals.
### The Only True Treasure
* Phaleron offers to assign one of its Chief Attendants the task of performing [[Historical research]] for the Conclave
* The Conclave must specify which Chief Attendant should undertake the research or the opportunity will fail
The Celestial Library contains a quantity of information unmatched anywhere in the mortal world. Thousands upon thousands of tomes, scrolls, books, and pamphlets exist in the library that is Phaleron, carefully categorized and studied by its librarians. In previous years it has carefully hoarded that knowledge, but recent events have led to it altering its attitudes. Especially with regard to those it considers its friends.
During the Autumn Equinox, then, Phaleron offers the Imperial Conclave the Opportunity to ask its librarians to perform Historical research on their behalf. A Declaration of Concord, supported by the Conclave, will cause Phaleron to instruct its emissaries to scour its own shelves, and those of any Imperial library where it is welcome, to compose a report about the historical matter the Conclave is interested in, delivered to the person who raises the Concord at the Winter Solstice. After the Solstice, it will ensure that information is disseminated to places of learning across the Empire as is traditional with the Department of Historical Research.
The Declaration must also name one of Phaleron's Chief attendants – Elioe, Lioc, Pollaman, Arannia, or Melchiore – and ask that they be assigned to oversee the research. Each of the attendants has their own area of expertise and will bring their own character to the essay that will ultimately be produced.
If the Declaration does not name both a single topic, and the attendant who will oversee the research, it will not be successful. Likewise, if more than one such Concord is raised by the Conclave, Phaleron will ignore all save the last. Of course, being a Concord, the successful Declaration will also be shared with the magicians of the Empire who might have their own Insights to offer to the librarians compiling the essay.
The heralds are keen that the Conclave understands this is not a request for a book, or books. A new piece of writing will be created, similar in scope to that produced by the Department, drawing on sources available both to the librarians in the Day realm, and to those in the Empire's libraries.
Conjured Coastal Citadels
One topic that comes up regularly with the Day eternals is that of magically summoned fortifications similar to [[Frozen Citadel of Cathan Canae]] but created in regions with the ''coastal'' quality. This matter is raised with some of Phaleron's heralds, and they provide the following explanation as to why it is not possible for magic to create such a thing. By its essential nature, a coastline is partway between one thing and another. it is a liminal space neither land nor sea, and defies classification. A [[Fortification]] or castle, by contrast, has an essential nature of resisting, standing strong, and being immovable and impregnable, which is absolutely at odds with the mutable nature of a coastal area. Ritual magic runs afoul of the Law of Essence, and so it will never be possible to create a ritual that conjures a magical fortification using the ''coastal'' quality.
### In Defence of Knowledge
* Phaleron has prepared an Arcane Projection detailing a ritual that can transform specific libraries into fortifications
* It may be codified and entered into lore
* Phaleron says it will not provide this power again; if the arcane projection is lost or used without being codified then that is the end of the matter
A little while ago, the [[Emissary to the Celestial Library]] (via [[Proxy]]) requested Phaleron's [[Assistance]] in defending the Grand Library of Canterspire. The ''Celestial Library'' was at first reticent to do so, but in the light of recent Events has reassessed the situation.
As such, it has caused an Arcane projection to be prepared, which will be delivered to the Emissary during the Autumn Equinox. The magic involved calls on Phaleron to protect one of the ''two'' libraries for which it serves as a patron – the Great Library of Canterspire, and the Great Library at Hacynian can both be targeted with this ritual. Phaleron has been forced to make some changes to how the rituals work, but their essential nature remains the same.
The arcane projection is explicitly provided with the intention that it be codified at a [[College of Magic]], and ideally entered into either [[Imperial lore]] or Urizen lore – the Celestial Library is equally happy with either. However, the martial nature of the Magic makes the eternal uneasy – and as such it wants to be clear that it will ''not'' offer this enchantment again. If the Arcane projection it has provided is not codified, is stolen or lost, or is cast on one of the libraries involved then it will not be replaced.
Unlike most arcane projections, this one also comes with an assurance. It will lose all power if the Empire allows one of its great storehouses of knowledge to be destroyed when it could conceivably have prevented it. This currently means the Great Library at Hacynian, [[Holberg]] University, Diora University, the Grand Library at Canterspire, or the Lyceum.
### The Bowl of Phaleron
* Phaleron offers to share copies of every book it has that speaks of The [[The Vallorn]]
* The [[Advisor on the Vallorn]] must use Gift of Knowledge to send a copy of Sian Eternal's book to the eternal along with 49 ingots of weltsilver
* The tomes Phaleron offers will reduce the time needed to reach a conclusion about how to destroy the [[Vallorn]] by three months
While Phaleron's patronage of the Urizeni is well known, it's perhaps less well known that it also serves as patron for the Grand Library at Hacynian. Thanks to the efforts of Siân Eternal and her allies, the ''Bowl of Phaleron'' now sits in [[Pride]] of place in the central hall of the library, and Phaleron has not forgotten that the vates of [[Navarr]] chose to honour it, over the ''Mistress of Mysteries''. For the last year it has carefully watched the expansion of the library, and now that it is complete it wishes to offer a concrete example of its support for the work done by the Advisor on the Vallorn. Provided the Advisor wishes to receive its support, it will provide a copy of every major tome in the collection that speaks about The the vallorn. Both its creation, and how it might be destroyed. Phaleron cannot vouch for the veracity of all these tomes – but it trusts in the discernment of mortal librarians.
There are a ''lot'' of books however. A ''lot'' of books. To create copies will require a significant amount of Weltsilver. Phaleron has made preparations however. If the Advisor on the Vallorn personally casts Gift of Knowledge using as a focus Sian Eternal's book on The the vallorn, and including 49 ingots of weltsilver, then Phaleron will have the books delivered to the library in [[Miaren]]. Phaleron predicts that this will be sufficient to reduce the time needed to research the destruction of the vallorn by another three months (meaning it will be completed in time for the Spring Equinox 386YE).
## [[Zakalwe]]
* Some of Zakalwe's emissaries - the ant-like myrmidons - have helped defend Imperial citizens from attacks by Cold Sun
* Zakalwe considers himself an ally of the Empire but will not fight their battles for them
''Tidehunter'' remains an ally of the Empire, and has dispatched numbers of myrmidons to help repel the initial attacks of Cold Sun. It seems that the Master Strategist is most interested in seeing how the Empire deals with the threat posed by the forces of the destructive eternal, however, and so his myrmidons have mostly withdrawn from the Empire for now. Instead, he has focused his attention on what he can do to help the Empire hone its military strength, and encourage it to embrace the philosophies and strategies the ''Strategos'' believes best suit masters of warfare. 
### The Key of Preparation
* If the [[Rod and Shield]] provide their own expertise, Zakalwe will send heralds to help assess the Empire's defences
The key to a good offence, some strategists opine, is a good defence. By defending one's home territory with fortifications, one is free to send ones armies to make war on ones enemies. Zakalwe offers aid to the Empire in strengthening its defences, specifically to the Grandmaster of the Rod and Shield.
If the Grandmaster raises a Declaration of Concord declaring that the magicians of their order should work with the ''Master Strategist'' in the coming months, together they will engage in an assessment of the Empire's defences. 
Zakalwe is confident that between the first-hand, practical knowledge of the Rod and Shield, and the [[Insight]] of his heralds, they will be able to identify several opportunities to enhance existing fortifications, and perhaps even identify a few places where new fortifications could be created. It is clear he is not thinking solely in terms of “thicker walls” - the unique qualities of the Walls of Cargo and the Salt Guard, and the indestructible [[Adamant]] Gate, are very much the kinds of things the eternal is thinking of when he says “enhance”.
### The Key of Focus
Imperial armyQuality
Black ThornsFast
BloodcloaksPhysick
Burning FalconGlorious
DrakesResourceful
Fire of the SouthFast
Golden SunResilient
Granite PillarDisciplined
Seventh WaveScouting
Summer StormRelentless
TusksDisciplined
Valiant PegasusPhysick
Wolves of WarMercenary
* The [[Warmage]] and [[Imperial Warcaster]] can ask Zakalwe to assess an [[Imperial army]] each and see how they might be honed
* The General of the appropriate army will need to welcome Zakalwe's attention in their orders
* The Master Strategist will ''not'' do this for a Varushkan army, but declines to provide further detail
Of course the Empire's strategy cannot depend entirely on walls, whatever those who favour the philosophies of [[Emperor James]] might believe. Where a fortification might represent an immovable object, the Imperial armies represent an irresistible force. In recent years the Empire has honed and focused several of its armies, but the ''General of Day'' believes that like any weapon, armies must be kept sharp.
With that in mind, Zakalwe reaches out to the Warmage and the Imperial Warcaster. These titles represent a link between the soldiers and the wizards of the Empire, and are of particular interest to him. During the Autumn Equinox, then, each of these titles have the option to name a single Imperial army and ask Zakalwe to send heralds to assess it and its capabilities. ''Tidehunter'' and his heralds will explore the history of the army, weigh its resonances, and propose a way that the force might be honed. Zakalwe has provided both the Imperial Warcaster and the Warmage with a sheet of specially prepared parchment. They merely need to write the name of the army they wish Zakalwe to examine on the paper, take it to the Imperial regio, and use [[Operate Portal]] to deliver it to the eternal; he will do the rest.
There is one other requirement however; the General of the army in question must mention in its orders that the heralds of Zakalwe are welcome to march with their soldiers. The eternal will not go where he is not welcomed.
A caveat exists with this ability. Any army that has recently been the focus of the Empire's attention (that has received an improved quality within the last few years) is less likely to present an Opportunity for honing its quality than one which has not been enhanced recently.
One other restriction exists; he will not send his heralds to assess the armies of [[Varushka]]. He gives no explanation for this. If the Warmage or Warcaster requests he do so, he will simply decline.
### The Key of Commitment
* Zakalwe has requested that the Imperial Conclave interdict the magical practice of enchanting armies to make soldiers "savage"
* This specifically related to army enchantments that specifically increase casualties against enemy soldiers caused rather than providing a special order
* While the practice is interdicted, Zakalwe will provide tokens that empower [[Clarity of the Master Strategist]] and [[Carve the Crystal Guardian]]
The Master Strategist has strong views on the integrity and self-knowledge of the warrior. He believes firmly in concepts of personal honour and that every soldier is ultimately responsible for the actions they take on [[The Battlefield]]. His commitment to rational thought even in the thick of battle is very appealing to a certain breed of soldier and General, but often puts him at odds with those who embrace the idea that the ends justify the means. While he is generally well disposed towards the Empire, there have been a few recent developments that have unsettled him.
He would like the Empire to place an [[Interdiction]] on the magical practice of enchanting entire armies in such a way that their soldiers become prone to savagery. The recent enchantment on the [[Fire of the South]] would be an example of the kind of thing he is talking about, as might the Night magic used to grant the Navarr armies murderous fervour during the recent campaign in [[Kahraman]]. These powers, he opines, are not good for the soldiers subjected to them, and reflect a commitment to bloodshed rather than victory. (OOC Note: Zakalwe is talking primarily about rituals that enchant an army with an ability that exists only for purposes of increasing casualties against enemy soldiers – not an order or a power that increases casualties only as part of a General increase to fighting strength).
If the Conclave does this, and for as long as they leave the restriction in place, Zakalwe will commit to providing the Imperial Warcaster with three of his crystalline tokens each season, one-use boons that make it easier to perform Clarity of the Master Strategist and Carve the Crystal Guardian. He will also be able to see that he is not mistaken in his belief that the Empire understands that the ends do not always justify the means.
## [[Sinokenon]]
* Sinokenon remains a little distant from the Empire, but has sent heralds to evaluate the Empire and in some cases offer advice
Sinokenon has always been a little distant from the Empire. Recently, though, the ''Throne of the Sun'' has begun to pay a little more attention to the doings of Imperial citizens, its attention apparently drawn by the [[Loyalty]] of the [[Imperial Orcs]]. Indeed, it took steps to help them recover the blessed shield ''Oath-Heart'' from the Fishers, and since then has apparently been keeping a closer eye on Imperial affairs. The eternal is fascinated by hierarchies, and by the way civilizations organise themselves. Following the Imperial enchantment of the Day Realm, it has dispatched several of its ministers to various parts of the Empire to observe and in some cases offer advice.
### What do you want to do?
* Sinokenon offers a special [[Appraisal]] to the Imperial Conclave
''Turning Mirror'' is very interested in how the Empire organises itself, and how it deals with the Challenges and opportunities it encounters. It possesses an unparalleled ability to asses situations and extrapolate likely outcomes from them, one even the best Imperial prognosticators cannot match thanks to their limited lifespans and finite stores of knowledge. During the Autumn Equinox, Sinokenon proposes to put that acumen at the service of the Imperial Conclave if they wish to make use of it.
During the Autumn Equinox, a Declaration of Concord may be raised starting with the words “The Conclave requests Turning Mirror consider the matter of...” and then a problem or situation. Sinokenon will dispatch its agents to the Empire to gather information about the named problem or situation, and then provide advice on how to address it, resolve it, or find opportunities related to it. 
The heralds will only visit the Empire, so problems outside its borders may prove difficult to assess. It also makes clear this is about assessment and advice, not information gathering or direct action. It is not going to spy on anyone, nor fight the Empire's enemies or build things for them. The Conclave should think of this in similar terms to an Appraisal, but one carried out by the eternal Sinokenon rather than a mortal prognosticator.
If more than one Declaration of Concord requests Sinokenon perform such an appraisal, it will undertake ''none'' of them. If the Conclave cannot organise itself so as to ensure only a single request is made, it will receive nothing.
## [[Ylenwe]]
* Ylenwe is no longer an enemy of the Empire
* Zie has undergone several deep-rooted changes, and now cautiously reconnects with Imperial citizens
The Dove is cautiously renewing relations with the Empire following the removal of enmity by Archmage Gralka at the Summer Solstice. Zie has already made several overtures to the Imperial Conclave, and they are still outstanding. If the General [[Assembly]] or the Highborn Assembly ask, zie will offer support in building the sacred city at [[Bastion]] for example, especially now that it is clear the designs for the structure are intended to incorporate great bells. The matter of the Swan's Chalice is still under discussion, as is the question of the shield Ajax.
Canticle Circle
Commission Type: [[Folly]]
Location: [[Spire]] of the Canticle, Atlis, [[Morrow]]
[[Cost]]: 30 wains of [[White granite]], 15 wains of mithril, 135 crowns, three months
Effect: A folly with improved grandeur. It creates a school for mathematics and [[Music]], along with an auditorium. that will quickly gain renown as a centre of both disciplines
Time Limit: The Opportunity is lost at the end of the Winter Solstice 385YE
Opportunity: This commission has required elements; if any are not all fulfilled the commission does nothing
### The Canticle Circle
* Ylenwe will offer support to the construction of a centre for mathematics and music at the Spire of the Canticle
* The proposed college-cum-auditorium would cost 30 wains of white granite, 15 wains of mithril, 135 Crowns, and take three months to complete
There is one other matter where Ylenwe offers direct support. The destruction of the Grand Conservatory of Music by Cold Sun apparently caused the eternal some distress. Zie cautiously offers patronage for, and assistance in constructing, a new conservatory celebrating music and mathematics, to be built near the Spire of the Canticle in Altis. Taking advantage of the unique acoustics at the spire, and with an eye toward producing truly inspirational music, the ''Canticle Circle'' that Ylenwe proposes to help establish is a grand auditorium, with a small school attached for study of both complex mathematics and the science of Music.
The proposal requires 30 wains of white granite, 15 wains of mithril, and costs 135 Crowns in labour. This is a Folly, which provides no mechanical benefits and does not create an [[Imperial Title]], but as an Opportunity its grandeur is significantly greater than the materials alone would provide. Once complete, it would establish a centre of excellence for mathematics and Music at the Spire of the Canticle, which would attract musicians and academics both from Urizen and across the wider Empire. It would also attract master crafters versed in the art of making beautiful musical instruments, and a small number of heralds of Ylenwe would also take up residence to help defend the location and provide additional inspiration for scholars and artists alike.
The folly is a significant piece of work, and Ylenwe understands that even if people are enthused about creating it gathering support and resources will take time. The opportunity will remain available until the end of the Winter Solstice 385YE.
## [[Leviathan]]
* Leviathan's heralds have used the encouragement provided by the Imperial Enchantment to visit museums across the Empire
* Some have provided messages from the immense eternal
The eternal Leviathan is pleasant enough, but most of their interactions with the Empire come through the ritual to which he gives his name. He continues to answer questions about the root causes of things, and his heralds are a relatively rare sight in the Empire itself. During the course of the Enchantment, a few more are encountered primarily visiting the Empire's museums. Friendly enough, they talk cheerfully about their master, the ''Deep One''. Part of that discussion involves offering some advice on how to deal with him, especially when asking him questions. 
Firstly, they think it's important that Imperial magicians accept that their master is ''very poor'' at understanding what motivates humans and orcs and others to do the things they do. The Abyssal Lord follows chains of Events - none know better than he why a chain of causality links one event to the next. But the Watcher Beneath the Waters neither knows nor cares why individual people chose to make the decisions they did. While he speaks with authority on things that have happened, and how specific ''Events'' relate to each other, his ability to know what motivated the people involved, their personal reasoning, beliefs, or feelings, is very limited and reliant largely on discussions with mortals involved. 
Then there is the matter of Navarr and [[Thorn]]. As Leviathan explained to the ''Sail and Sight'' coven during the Summer Solstice, he has pretty much reached the limit of his knowledge of the storied forebears of the Navarr nation as individuals. He will always do his best to answer questions about them, but has expressed the exasperated opinion that there he's not sure how much there is left to say. The heralds suggest that magicians might be better giving some thought to what it is that they are ''really'' trying to find out when they are tempted to ask questions about the actions of ''any'' individual people, but Navarr and Thorn in particular.
Leviathan Hall
Commission Type: Folly
Location: The city of [[Tassato]], [[Sarvos]], Gildenheim, Miaren, Bastion, Meade, or Kalpaheim
Cost: 20 wains of white granite, 10 wains of Mithril, 90 crowns, three months
Effect: Creates a hall where the heralds of the eternal Leviathan will be able to gather
Time Limit: The opportunity is lost at the end of the Winter Solstice 385YE
Opportunity: This commission has required elements; if any are not all fulfilled the Commission does nothing
### On the Matter of Museums
* Leviathan has requested the construction of a hall for the use of his heralds
During the Imperial Enchantment, Leviathan seems mostly to have dispatched heralds to visit the Empire's museums. They have been spotted at the White City Museum in Bastion,at the Blood Red River Museum in Tassato, at the Printer's [[Guild]] Museum (also in Tassato), visiting the [[Weigher of Worth]] in [[Skarsind]], and one apparently visited the Unbound Steel Hall of Lost Chapters in [[Reikos]] before its untimely destruction. The eternal is by all accounts quite miffed about that latter event, at least according to his heralds. 
People who forget their past waste the lessons learned by their forbears. Museums are a place where the tRuth of what has gone before is remembered, and the foundations of the world we live in today can be seen and explored. They are a public good, and the ''Dragon Whale'' is always pleased to speak to people who appreciate that.
Shortly before the Autumn Equinox, Leviathan sends one of his heralds to speak with the civil service and place a request before the Empire. The eternal would like the Senate to build a ''Leviathan Hall'' - a place for his heralds to gather, rest, and perhaps speak with Imperial citizens. He would like it to be built in one of the "historical cities", places the ''Swimmer in the Twilight Abyss'' says are particularly amenable to history and where he says he can find good Regio for the use of his heralds. He names Tassato, Sarvos, Gildenheim, Miaren, Bastion, Meade, or Kalpaheim as suitable locations. The structure he is proposing is not especially grand, and would be a Folly costing 20 wains of white granite, 10 wains of Mithril, and 90 Crowns, and take three months to complete. It would be a nice stone hall designed to mirror the surrounding Architecture, with Mithril inlays, and with Mosaics built into the walls, floors, and ceiling created to the specifications of Leviathan's heralds by local artists. The opportunity is available until the end of the Winter Solstice 385YE, after which Leviathan will turn his attention elsewhere.
The structure wouldn't actually ''do'' anything, beyond making the ''Fish of Why?'' happy that his heralds will be free to visit the Empire's museums and recount what they have seen there to their master, deep in the endless twilight depths.
## [[Roshanwe]]
Heralds of the ''Navigator'' - the eternal Roshanwe - have been conspicuously absent from the Empire during the effects of the Imperial ritual. There is absolutely no indication ''why'' this is the case. It's not that she has disappeared, only that there seems to have been no notable increase in her interest in the Empire despite the Magic. On the one occasion that one of her servants is queried, it shrugs and says that the quest for knowledge is its own reward, and refuses to elaborate. There's no reason to think the Empire's relationship with the eternal has been damaged, or is in decline. All that has happened is that she has not responded in any noticeable way to the strengthening of Day magic in the Empire.
## Further Reading
* Bright Eyes Gleam in the Depths
* Day magic
* Shining like fire - 385YE Autumn wind of fortune relating the magical effects of the Imperial enchantment
* To the last syllable - 385YE Autumn wind of war dealing with the attacks of Cold Sun