---
IgnoreLinking: False
Tags: ['Recent-History', 'Winds-of-Magic', 'Winds-of-Fortune', '382YE-Spring']
Title: Pitiless as the sun
aliases: ['Pitiless_as_the_sun']
draft: False
revision_date: 2022-01-20 21:29:57+00:00
revision_id: 85402
---

"They say the stars are still going missing. The stars! How can anyone steal the stars in the first place, much less do it so often that people think its commonplace?"
"Well I think we all know who's to blame."
"Yes. It's clearly the work of Edric de Gauvain - ''dammit''! I mean the [[Druj]]. The damn [[Druj]]! ''Dammit!''"
## Mortal [[Magic]]
### Black Velvet Skies
* The stars are missing in [[The Barrens]], [[Zenith]], [[Holberg]], and [[Spiral]]
* The penumbral veil has been drawn over [[Otkodov]], and over the Imperial territories [[Feroz]], [[Temeschwar]], and [[Morrow]]  
The [[Night|night]] skies over [[The Barrens]] and [[Zenith]] are empty of stars; it is said the [[Druj]] have stolen them. This is not a new state of affairs, and it has been quite some time since the familiar [[Constellations|constellations]] were visible above [[The Mallum|the Mallum]]. There was some expectation that the stars might return to [[Zenith]] at least before the [[Spring]] Equinox, but that hope does not bear fruit. Likewise, since the [[Autumn]] Equinox, the stars over [[Holberg]] have likewise been obscured. There is some concern that this might be a clue to the presence of some hidden [[Druj]] [[Coven|coven]] hiding in the forests of Utterlund or Misericorde but no follow-up attacks have so far taken place. Finally, a week before the Spring Equinox, with the [[Druj]] occupying the heart of Screed, the starts there are likewise devoured leaving the night darker, and even more full of terrors.
[[Rituals]] such as [[Eyes of the Sun and Moon]], [[Eye of the High Places]], and [[Dreams in the Witch House]] performed on one of these territories are impeded. The strength of theses shrouds are not specifically known but from past experience are ''assumed'' to be around the fiftieth magnitude.
====[[Naga]] influence==== 
Any [[Naga]] who has spent significant time in [[The Barrens|the Barrens]], [[Zenith]], [[Spiral]], or [[Holberg]] experiences the following [[Roleplaying effect|roleplaying effect]]; ''your natural urge toward subtlety and secretiveness is greatly strengthened. [[Naga]] in [[General|general]] relish being mysterious and secretive, but while experiencing this potent roleplaying effect you may need to make a significant effort of [[Will|will]] to answer direct questions or be honest about your intentions.'' 
The roleplaying effect is significantly lessened at [[Anvil]] - indeed the longer one stays out of a [[Territory|territory]] where it applies the less pressing the urge to [[Secrecy|secrecy]] and subtlety becomes - but a [[Naga|naga]] with a strong [[Lineage|lineage]] who has spent time in one of the shrouded territories [[Will|will]] still experience the roleplaying effect at least until Saturday morning.
### Penumbral Veils
More familiar shrouds - the Penumbral Veils - hang over several places Urdur in [[Otkodov]]. It is still not clear at this time if the same veil lies over Nithoggir, Sküld, or [[Verthandi]] and difficult to determine without using scrying [[Magic|magic]] to examine the territories in question.
Within [[The Empire|the Empire]], Penumbral Veils cover [[Feroz]], [[Temeschwar]], and [[Morrow]] are hidden - the [[Magic|magic]] here [[Will|will]] fade shortly before the [[Summer]] Solstice. In each of these territories, the stars are warped into a shroud that interferes with magical scrying. Furthermore, in each territory, these shrouds have a particular resonance to them that means they are also prone to heavy, dark fog, and the altered stars are often hidden behind inky black clouds.
The shrouds that previously hung over [[Madruga]] and [[Sarvos]] have now faded away.
### Castle in the Water
* A magical citadel has been raised in the marshes of [[Kallavesa]]
There has been a surprising dearth of [[Enchanted|enchanted]] citadels in [[The Empire|the Empire]] since the [[Winter]] Solstice. Indeed, only one such has been marked. The Sussavari Frost Coven of [[Wintermark]] maintains the castle of fog-and-shadows, deftly woven from subtle [[Night magic]], that protects the damp lowlands of [[Kallavesa]] again, as it has for several years almost without interruption. The citadel [[Will|will]] fade with the coming of the Spring Equinox but while it stands it protects the homeland of the [[Kallavesi]] and provides safe haven for defenders and travelers alike. With the completion of the [[Wintermark]] beacons in [[Kallavesa]] and [[Hahnmark]] it remains to be seen if the [[Fortification|fortification]] continues to be needed.
### Edric de Gauvain
* A peculiar [[Curse]] has fallen over [[Weirwater]] in [[Dawn]]
As the Winter Solstice fades, a very strange [[Curse|curse]] settles over the Dawnish Territory of [[Weirwater]]. At first, it is barely noticeable but as the weeks draw on it becomes impossible to ignore. It is as subtle as it is insidious; it makes a certain name take unusual prominence in almost every conversation. In taverns all other conversations suffer a lull just as that name is uttered. The winter wind groaning through the trees seems to moan it mournfully. In a crowded place that name is shouted out, yet none admit to being responsible. Words that are similar are easily misread to be some or all of the name. Whenever someone asks a question about something, it is that name that comes first to mind, or that tumbles unexpectedly from the lips.
The most infuriating element is that a large number of people have no idea who this name refers to. Who, by all the [[Paragons and Exemplars|paragons and exemplars]], is Edric de Gauvain?
### Participation : [[Weirwater]]
Any character who has spent significant time in [[Weirwater]], or whose personal [[Resource|resource]] is based in the territory, experiences the following roleplaying effect; ''When prompted for the name of a person, your first instinct is to answer Edric de Gauvain." It is not important whether the character knows who Edric de Gauvain is, or whether they have ever heard of them before. The effects [[Will|will]] have faded by the end of the Spring Equinox but will persist until at least the Saturday morning of the summit.
### The Mists of Grimhold
* A peculiar mist briefly enshrouded the [[Fortification|fortification]] of Grimhold in [[Miekarova]]
Following the Winter Solstice, travelers passing near Grimhold Fortress in Strascovia reported a peculiar phenomenon. Starting on the night of the new moon, a peculiar mist gathered aroun the walls of the castle. As the moon waxed towards full, the mist became thicker, and according to at least some reports, odd lights could be seen moving in its depths. On the three nights the moon was brightest, the mist swirled and coiled around the Grimhold like a nest of serpents. As the moon faded, however, so too did the mist until it was entirely [[Gone|gone]] by the first night of the next new moon. If the Vor'Azi who live in Grimhold know the provenance of the mist, they have not revealed it to any outsider.
## In-Between [[Magic]]
### [[Kallavesi]] [[Mystics]] and Geese
* There is an [[Opportunity|opportunity]] to engage in a [[Mystic|mystic]] ceremony on Friday evening
The [[Kallavesi]] mystics of [[Wintermark]] gossip among themselves. It is traditional that when [[Groups|groups]] of [[Kallavesi]] mystics come together, they partake of communion with one another - usually in the form of consuming a large amount of specially prepared narcotic. The Spring Equinox will be no exception - the news is that any [[Kallavesi]] [[Mystic|mystic]] is welcome to consume [[Goosewhisper Infusion]] with their peers on Friday evening at nine o'clock, and see if any ancestral spirits wish to speak to them.
## [[Eternal]] [[Magic]]
### [[Llofir]], The Ender of Empires
* [[Llofir]] has called for a parley with the [[Archmage of Spring]] at eight o'clock on Friday evening
* The region of Tamarbode has been sealed against Imperial citizens
During the Winter Solstice, the [[Imperial Conclave]] declared enmity against the Spring [[Eternal|eternal]] [[Llofir]]. In response, the [[Eternal|eternal]] [[Llofir]] has sent word that it wishes to speak with the [[Archmage]] of Spring during the coming Equinox. It intends to send an emissary to the Hall of the Worlds at eight o'clock on Friday evening. 
Apart from that message, the only other response to the enmity has been a burst of growth in Tamarbode - the region of [[Reikos]] that [[Llofir]] claims. In the past the heralds of Llofir and other creatures that dwelt in Tamarbode gently discouraged visitors and went about their own peculiar [[Business|business]] in private. One exception was the [[Mana site]] known as Tamar's Toes. Even after the region was claimed by the [[Eternal|eternal]], magicians still made regular trips into the tumultuous woodlands to claim the bounty of crystal mana, and were allowed to pass unmolested - although it was clear that they were not especially welcome. The [[Mana site|mana site]] itself seemed to be the only part of Tamarbode not completely swallowed by the unruly [[Forest|forest]] raised by Llofir's [[Spring magic]]. 
That has now changed. Following the Winter Solstice, the magicians who sought to gather crystal mana at the site discovered it was being rapidly overgrown by tree-sized fungal growths. As the Spring Equinox approached, the last few visitors were met at the border by some of Llofir's creatures - not the little beasts and eerie mushroom folk commonly seen around the area but by large, bulky humanoids with armoured shells and great living clubs. The heralds were polite, but would allow no mortals to enter Tamarbode. Regretfully, Llofir will not permit those who have declared themselves its enemies to enter Tamarbode any more, meaning that the crystal mana can no longer be gathered. Indeed, it seems next to impossible for ''anyone'' to enter Tamarbode without significant military force behind them.
Isolde of the [[Banner]] of the Cenotaph has lost control of Tamar's Toes; it has been replaced with a rank one [[Mana site]]. If desired, they may [[Contact Profound Decisions|contact Profound Decisions]] and change to a different rank one personal resource without the usual [[Cost|cost]] of 2 crowns transfer fee.
### The Gift of [[Kaela]]
* [[Kaela]]'s Gift is still available to those who fall into the hands of the Druj
The Gift of [[Kaela]] is still offered to any Imperial citizen in the hands of the Druj orcs, whether they be within [[The Empire|the Empire]] or without. The gift allows such prisoners to choose to die painlessly. No corpse remains for the Druj to defile, to impale, or to use to taunt the living - the body turns to dust and ashes. This gift extends across the entire eastern Empire, and into [[The Mallum|the Mallum]], [[Zenith]], and [[The Barrens]].
OOC Note: Using the gift requires thirty seconds of [[Appropriate roleplaying|appropriate roleplaying]]. This ability may be used by player [[Characters|characters]] capture by the Druj during an event; if you do so you should ensure that you mark your character as dead as soon as you can so that your [[Egregore|egregore]] is aware of your death. There is however one drawback to this as Imperial magicians may soon discover; anyone who takes advantage of this ability cannot be contacted with [[Whispers through the Black Gate]].
### The Father of Bats
* [[Sadogua]] mourns the death of Richard of [[Holberg]]
The Father of Bats has made little effort to communicate with [[The Empire|the Empire]] since his various offers during the Winter Solstice. Heralds visiting the Lyceum, or wintering with respected masters of [[Night magic]] bring news that the ''Brother of Wizards'' is in mourning. His long time friend and close companion Richard of [[Holberg]] has finally succumbed to his long illness and passed beyond the ken of mortal or [[Eternal|eternal]]. Some of his projects can still be completed. The [[Curse|curse]]-warding dolmens for example can still be built, as can the Loom of the Heavens as the plans were shared with [[The Empire|the Empire]] before Richard's decline became too bad. There will be not further [[Opportunities|opportunities]] to work with [[The League|the League]] magical [[Architect|architect]], however.
This leaves the matter of the [[Faraden]] and their iridescent blight very much in the air - but as the ''Toad King'' has promised not to pass the grubs that are in his care to their wizards without the approval of the [[Imperial Conclave]], it may well be that no news is good news.
### [[Eleonaris]]' Friendship
* [[Eleonaris]] requests a sign of the alliance between [[The Fields of Glory|the Fields of Glory]] and the Empire
The Queen of the Fields of [[Glory]] has not made further direct overture to the Empire, but rather has again sent a single herald to speak to prominent masters of [[Summer magic]]. The gruff herald ''Nezha'' mentions that during the Winter Solstice the Empire called forth some 24,000 knights devoted to [[Eleonaris]] to aid them in their [[Battles|battles]]. The near equivalent of five entire armies fought alongside Imperial troops. He notes with some concern that he can see no sign of a statue celebrating the alliance between the Empire and his Queen. He plans to return to the Empire after the Spring Equinox to see what progress if any has been made in this regard, on behalf of his mistress.
### [[Meraud]]'s [[Challenge]] and the Lions of Fire
* [[Meraud]] has delayed the culmination of his [[Challenge|challenge]] to the magicians of the Empire
* Research has revealed his involvement in the codification of a certain [[Ritual|ritual]]
During the Autumn Equinox, the eternal [[Meraud]] issued a [[Challenge|challenge]] to the Empire. Since the Autumn Equinox, the Summer [[Mage]] has been observing the mighty magics worked by the Empire on [[The Battlefield|the battlefield]]. It was his intention to return during the Spring Equinox to conclude the [[Challenge|challenge]] with the aid of a group of judges. Unfortunately, he is unable to do so this season after all. His heralds delicately explain that there is a matter that has consumed much of the ''Golden Magicians'' time of late, and that until it is concluded he cannot leave his tower for any reason.
He still wishes to hear from Imperial magicians of the magic they have woven that has turned the tide of battle, saved the lives of their fellows, slaughtered their enemies, and granted succour to the Empire. Each magical feat will be judged as to its effectiveness, its raw power, its cleverness, its majesty, and its uniqueness. It will simply have to wait until the Summer Solstice.
It is possible that this reticence about visiting the Empire may be connected to a recent revelation coming from the Lyceum. Following on from some interest where the magical defences called by [[Dripping Echoes of the Fen]] and [[Forge the Wooden Fastness]] originate, some of the researches at the Lyceum turned their attention on the ritual [[Lions of Phoenix Reach]]. What they found was a little troubling. It is widely known that it is not possible to summon beings or objects from the [[Realms|realms]] without the [[Assistance|assistance]], however fleeting, of an eternal. Yet the [[Lions of Phoenix Reach]] appears to call fiery spirits from the Summer [[Realm]] without any such intervention. Until, that is, the ritual was carefully examined. It appears that far from simply summoning the spirits, the ability to do so is woven into the ritual with the [[Assistance|assistance]] of [[Meraud]]. As near as the researchers can tell, someone at the Halls of Knowledge concealed this fact during the formulation - from both their fellow researchers an from the [[Provost of the Halls of Knowledge]] himself.
There's no evidence of any malefaction on behalf of [[Meraud]] - but the fact the eternals involvement was concealed may be cause for mild alarm.
### [[Adamant]] and the [[Gate]]
* The [[Adamant]] Gate in [[Semmerholm]] is complete.
After a year of work, the ''koboldi'' of [[Adamant]] have completed the construction of the new [[Fortification]] in [[Semmerholm]]. Dubbed the ''[[Adamant]] Gate'', it is a beautiful [[White granite|white granite]] fortress imbued with majestic power from the [[Summer Realm]]. Magicians who have examined the finished [[Fortification|fortification]] are excited to discover that the castle simply cannot be destroyed by normal means. It can be captured, certainly, but it would take exceptionally potent magic to actually destroy it - most likely some dire [[Curse|curse]] of [[Winter magic]] to leech the power from the stones. In campaign terms, this means that damage to the [[Adamant]] Gate cannot reduce it to below 1,000 military strength. It can be captured, but it cannot be destroyed.
Furthermore, to the apparent pleasure of the ''koboldi'', the problems with the college of engineering and architecture were apparently resolved. While construction has not yet begun, the little heralds are hopeful it will soon be completed.