---
revision_id: 103972
revision_date: 2023-07-26T15:53:44Z
Tags:
- 385YE-Summer
- Recent-History
- Winds-of-Fortune
draft: false
Title: Questions of virtue
aliases:
- Questions_of_virtue
---
Alveroz sat back on the chair and raised the steaming mug of syrah to his lips. It was hot, way too hot to drink, so he blew on it a few times. He preferred a cold syrah personally, especially on a hot day, but he wasn't about to insult his hosts.
"Is it true they all fought to the death?" Mateo asked in a whisper. It was funny thought Alveroz, people who didn't see much fighting always talked about dying in a whisper. 
"Yup. Every last one of them. I think they could have retreated at the start, but once we had them surrounded it was too late for that. We called on them to surrender but they weren't having any of it. Every last one of them died. It was pretty grim."
"They must really hate us!" Mateo exclaimed, visibly shocked to have confirmation of the wild rumours that were flying around.
Alveroz screwed his face up in thought. "I don't think so" he countered. "I mean maybe. They hate the Navarr, that's for sure. They call them 'Imperial Druj'. I don't know what that means, but they say it like it's the worst insult they can think of." 
Now it was Mateo's turn to ponder the idea. "Why do they hate the Navarr so much?" he asked.
"I dunno. I guess it's something someone did some time... or something." His host nodded at these wise words. "Anyway - they don't hate us, I don't think. They were singing. That was the weird thing - they had this song and they kept singing it - right to the end."
"That's not that odd is it?" said Mateo, unpersuaded by this development. "I've heard plenty of our kohan singing before a battle." 
"Yeah sure... but they were singing ''while they were fighting''. Our kohan sing songs to get their spirits up for battle, to get you fired up for the [[Fight|fight]]. This wasn't that kind of singing at all. It was closer to a dirge, but more like the singing we have at a funeral to celebrate someone's passing. It was like... it was like they were all celebrating the fact they were all gonna die..."
Mateo pulled a face. "That is weird." he said and then repeated it emphasizing the last word again.
Alveroz nodded in agreement but he said nothing. He lifted his cup up, and was grateful to find the Syrah had cooled a little. They'd be on the march again in the morning and he'd really only come in here to get a drink and try to unwind a little. He took a long gulp from his mug, closed his eyes, and let his breath out slowly. The syrah was strong and he could feel himself relaxing. Hopefully it would help him sleep tonight and for the first time in three days he wouldn't hear the singing.
## Overview
The [[Jotun]] did not [[Fight|fight]] in [[Kahraman]]; they [[Shallows and miseries|quit the territory]] leaving only their so-called champions behind them. Raiders strike the neighbouring territories, and strike across the Cinnabar Hills themselves raiding as they go. When the Imperial armies reach [[Kahraman#Braydon's Jasse|Braydon's Jasse]], they find the orc have retreated back into [[Liathaven#Liaven.27s Glen|Liaven's Glen]], leaving only a single encampment around [[Kahraman#Fort Braydon|Fort Braydon]], who [[Fight|fight]] under empty red banners until all are slain. The Jotun have left Kahraman - for now - but they have left their mark on the territory nonetheless. Nor is Kahraman the only place the [[The Brass Coast|Freeborn]] have been attacked. It's now common knowledge that the [[Feroz#Isle of the Osseini|Isle of the Osseini]] and the [[Corsair]] town of [[Feroz#Shantarim|Shantarim]] have been destroyed. Not by the [[Grendel]], but by their [[Asavean Archipelago|Asavean]] allies. With the end of the peace treaty imminent, the spectre of a full-scale invasion of the Brass Coast by the [[Orc|orcs]] of the Broken Shore hangs like heavy smoke over the immediate future.
Yet the Freeborn are not alone. The [[Highguard|Highborn]] have offered their aid, guided by the priests of the Brass Coast as to where their assistance may prove most valuable. Their [[Full of sacred sound#A Peerless Kinship|peerless kinship]], at least, offers some hope to the beleaguered nation.
## A Question of Virtue
* A decision should be made of what to do with the bodies of the dead Jotun at Fort Braydon
* The Brass Coast could bury them in the Jotun tradition, honour them with a pyre in the Freeborn tradition, or leave the bodies for the crows
For most of the Freeborn, [[The Brass Coast culture and customs#Funerals|funerals are celebrations]] especially when they come at the end of a life well lived. Death is often portrayed as a buffoon, and it is often seen as an insult to mourn the dead too intensely. As a consequence, it is easy for them to overlook the significance other cultures place on death. The Highborn are very different people, taking death and the memory of the fallen very seriously. While visiting Kahraman, it is a Highborn priests who points out that the Freeborn now face an important decision - how to deal with the bodies of the recently slain Jotun champions.
During the [[Shallows and miseries#The Flames of Fort Braydon|Battle of Fort Braydon]], the Jotun who defended the captured Freeborn [[Fortification]] were wiped out. Every last one fought to the bitter end, but they were outnumbered and soon overwhelmed. By all accounts these were orcs who fought the Empire in the Mournwold, and survived the [[381YE Spring Equinox winds of war#Let That Be Your Last Battlefield .28Mournwold.29|battle of Orchard's Watch]]. They sought death willingly, as a way to overcome the shame they felt - the Jotun have said that the current war with the Empire cannot end while there are any Jotun left who failed to protect the thralls of the Mournwold.
With so many Jotun slain in one place, and no force nearby to recover the fallen, it falls to the Freeborn to decide how they wish to dispose of the bodies. They could choose to show respect to the dead Jotun, either in the Jotun tradition, or the Freeborn one. On the other hand, the Assembly might wonder if it is appropriate to honour the dead of a people who keep invading the Brass Coast, bearing their people away as thralls, stealing their hard-won Prosperity. Whatever decision they make is likely to be significant. They have no armies in the area now, but whatever decision the Freeborn make, the Jotun are bound to discover what has been done to the bodies of their fallen [[Heroes|heroes]].
### Mound
They could choose to honour the dead in the Jotun way. This will take time and effort, and will not be entirely popular with the people of Kahraman. People will need to be paid for the labour; the priest who spreads this mandate will need to defray those costs.
Mandate|mandate=The Virtuous inspire others to greatness; they do not demean them. We send {named priest} with 25 doses of liao and 5 thrones to urge the people of Kahraman to raise a burial mound over the dead Jotun in Braydon's Jasse. While they are our enemies, we should not ignore the Courage of those Jotun who remained behind to face us.|assembly=Freeborn National Assembly
If this mandate is enacted, the bodies of the fallen orcs, their weapons, and their armour will be gathered and a burial mound in the Jotun style raised over them not far from the site of the Battle of Fort Braydon. This is how the Jotun bury their dead after a battle. It will earn their grudging respect, at least to some extent, though it won't completely erase the impact of the deaths inflicted in the recent Winter magic-fuelled rampage carried out by the Freeborn army (the Jotun are known to view ritual war magic that increases casualties as beyond the pale for any civilised foe).
Maria I Espiri I Guerra has offered an alternative mandate on this matter.
Mandate|mandate=The battle at Braydon's Jasse was hard fought and we honour the Courage of those who remained behind to face us. We send {named priest} with 25 doses of liao and 5 thrones to urge the people of Kahraman to raise a burial mound over the dead Jotun. Our traditions are what define us, we believe all should be offered the opportunity to follow those traditions, especially in death.|assembly=Freeborn National Assembly
If enacted this mandate would have all the effects of the above mandate and the additional result of encouraging Freeborn to recognise the traditions of all their enemies, within reason. They would be unlikely to try learning and supporting the customs of the [[Druj]] but they would endeavour to recognise the traditions of other enemies.
Luca i Taziel i Riqueza as offered an alternate mandate on this matter.
Mandate|mandate=The Virtuous inspire others to greatness; they do not demean them. While they are our enemies we should not ignore the Courage of those Jotun who remained behind to face us. But Virtue is carried in Spirit, not corpses. If the Jotun ever wish their dead to lay in Kahraman, they will have to dig through the ashes of every Freeborn who dies defending it. We send {named priest} with 25 doses of liao and 15 thrones to urge the people of Kahraman to deliver the bodies of the fallen Jotun to their own, be it the borders they claim or their soldiers in retreat. They deserve our respect, not our soil. Let them lay the bodies in their home, not ours.|assembly=Freeborn National Assembly
If enacted this mandate would see cartloads of Jotun corpses moved from where they fell in Kahraman to the borders of Reinos and Liathaven. There is no way of telling how the Jotun would react to this, but it would be very unlikely to anger them more than [[#Pyre|burning the bodies]] or [[#Ditch|looting them]].
### Pyre
A cheaper and easier method would be to deal with the dead in the traditional Freeborn manner. The assembly could endorse the following mandate to urge people to create a great pyre to burn the bodies with respect and to celebrate the Courage of their passing:
Mandate|mandate= The Virtuous face unwelcome truths as boldly as any barbarian charge. We send {named priest} with 25 doses of liao to urge the people of Kahraman to create a funeral pyre to celebrate the Courage of the slain in Braydon's Jasse.|assembly=Freeborn National Assembly
If this mandate is enacted, the dead Jotun will be treated like Freeborn dead, wrapped in spice-infused wraps of black cloth and then burned. This is not how the Jotun treat their dead, but it ''is'' how the Freeborn honour their own. The Jotun are known to be obsessed with honour, so if they understand the significance of the ritual, they may appreciate the honour that is being done. If not, then they are likely to be angered by this.
### Ditch
On the other hand, some of the Freeborn and Navarr soldiers who fought at Fort Braydon, and who have faced the Jotun before, take a different view. Nobody asked the orcs to come here, nobody asked them to kill Imperial soldiers, and honouring their "sacrifice" is an insult to those who died fighting them. The Freeborn could use a mandate to show their contempt for the Jotun.
Mandate|mandate= Despise that which threatens what you watch over. We send {named priest} with 25 doses of liao to ensure that the bodies of the dead or champions are stripped, their weapons and armour sold, and their bodies left for carrion. We will give them the death they crave.|assembly=Freeborn National Assembly
If this mandate is enacted, the bodies of the Jotun will be efficiently looted and then left for carrion to consume. No respect will be shown to them; quite the contrary. The sale of weapons and armour will generate five thrones for the priest who enacts the mandate - with the expectation that they will share the money with those who have suffered under the hands of the Grendel and the Jotun.
The Jotun will be incensed by this action, especially following as it does the decision of the Fire of the South to slaughter as many Jotun warriors as possible in the recent campaign. It is impossible to know what response they will give if any, but it will cause a material shift in their view of the Freeborn. The Jotun will see them and treat them more like the Navarr going forwards.
### Competing Mandates
These mandates are in [[Mandate#Competing Mandates|competition]] with each other. If more than one is upheld - assuming any are - whichever judgement passed with the greatest margin is considered to be successful and all other competing mandates fail.
## Our Freeborn Cousins
* The Highguard National Assembly may enact a mandate to help the Freeborn protect their homes and regain Feroz
* The effects last until the start of the Summer Solstice 386YE
During the Spring Equinox, the Highborn National Assembly chose to express their [[Full of sacred sound#A Peerless Kinship|peerless kinship]] with [[The Brass Coast]]. Guided by the [[Statement of Principle]] by Tiana i Zayden i Riqueza, the past three months have seen Highborn pilgrims coming to the Coast to see how they can help save the [[Territory]] of [[Kahraman]] from the [[Jotun]]. Yet by the time the priests have arrived, most of the western orcs have already [[Shallows and miseries|quit the Cinnabar Hills]]. A force of champions remain behind to hold [[Kahraman#Fort Braydon|Fort Braydon]], but they are overwhelmed by the armies set to reclaim the territory.
SOPInner|statement= Our Freeborn cousins are locked in a struggle to defend their land and their freedom. We ask all Highborn to bend their efforts to help them in a spirit of Peerless Kinship.|by=Lev|vote=Greater Majority 421-10|when=Spring Equinox 385YE
SOPInner|statement=The Highborn assembly are offering their help, through peerless kinship, to the Brass Coast. They may not direct this help, but we can. We ask the people of Highguard to help us save Kahraman from the Jotun. Please don't let it fall, and if it falls, please stand beside us as we take it back.|by=Tiana i Zayden i Riqueza|vote=Greater Majority 184-0|when=Spring Equinox 385YE
However, [[Vigilance]] is very clear that just because the enemy is not in front of you, that does not mean you are safe from their malice. Kahraman and [[Segura]] both have long borders with Jotun lands, and over the last ten years or so there have been multiple invasions from the west. The orcs could return at any moment. Furthermore, one-quarter of the Brass Coast - the territory of [[Feroz]] - is still under the yoke of the [[Grendel]]. As they helped the [[Urizen]] reclaim [[Zenith]], so they could help the Freeborn reclaim their homes in Feroz. 
With no sign of the [[Ratify treaty with the Grendel Autumn 383YE|peace treaty]] being extended, it is almost inconceivable that the orcs of the Broken Shore will not attempt to invade [[Madruga]] sooner, rather than later. To support the entire Brass Coast, the Highborn could chose to enact the following mandate.
Mandate|mandate=The Vigilant prepare for malice, lest malice take us unawares. We will stand with the Freeborn to defend their homes, and march with them as they take back what has been lost. We send {named priest} with 75 liao to urge the people of Highguard to support our Freeborn cousins in the coming war.|assembly=Highguard National Assembly
If this mandate is enacted, it will have three lingering effects. Until the start of the Summer Solstice 386YE, any Highborn [[Imperial army|army]] that fights in the Brass Coast, or in Feroz, will gain a flat bonus of one-tenth to defend or take territory. In addition, any Highborn [[Military unit]] that fights in the Brass Coast of Feroz during this time will gain a +1 rank bonus to their effective strength.
There is a restriction here however; if the Highborn assembly urges the warriors of Highguard to support the Brass Coast, no similar statement of principle or mandate will create benefits to fight the enemies of the Empire until a year has passed, or even longer if the Highborn find a way to extend the effects of the mandate.
### Other Opportunities
There are of course any number of other ways the Highborn could help protect the Brass Coast, especially the benefactors. They could throw their considerable economic might behind the project to [[Rebuild Roads of Kahraman|restore and protect]] the Cinnabar Hills, for example. There is also obviously aid to offer in Madruga against the Dry Patricians. There may even be ways to support the Freeborn more directly in Kahraman - there is an [[Shallows and miseries#Battle Opportunities|opportunity for Imperial heroes]] to use the [[Sentinel Gate]] to try and prevent the destruction of Fort Braydon for example.
## Touch of Winter
SOP|statement=The Fire of the South take their blades to the Jotun, with Winter Magic at their back. Let true virtue remain in their hearts. Anoint. Hallow. Act in Vigilance.|by=Ahshen i Fiel i Guerra|vote=Greater Majority 184-0|when=Spring Equinox 385YE
Free born, we return home once more brining the pragmatism of winter. Once more we have unwelcome visitors in Kahraman. These Jotun have claimed fort Braydon for their own. We will bloody them as we force them to leave. With our overwhelming assault we will reclaim our home. We will show them what it means to dampen the flame of the Freeborn.
Velasco i Guerra, General of the Fire of the South
* Tharim offers to send a cadre of steel-bound knights to support the Fire of the South against the Jotun or the Grendel in return for an invitation to feast on the mana sites and herb gardens of the Brass Coast
* The cadre has an effective military strength of 1,000, but would count as an enchantment on the army
The Highborn are not the only potential allies the Brass Coast has. During the battle for Kahraman, the Fire of the South possessed a powerful enchantment of the Winter realm that made them merciless in battle against the Jotun, taking every opportunity to cut down and kill their adversaries. Implacable and merciless, they targeted baggage trains, executed the fallen, and cut down anyone attempting to flee without hesitation. Cold and calculating to the point of callousness, there was none of the easy camaraderie or joy-in-battle that often accompanies a Freeborn force. At night, their campfires burned green and blue, and provided little heat, such was the chilling power of the enchantment.
It seems that this display of Winter magic did not go unnoticed; the [[Tharim|Bound King]] is by all accounts extremely impressed with the [[Change|change]] in the Freeborn army. Tharim has so far [[Chaos, and the stillness of it#The Aid of the Bound King|provided aid to the Navarr]], and to [[Throw back the echoes#Tharim|the Dawnish]]. Indeed, his agreement to aid the people of Dawn in retaking [[The Barrens]] has, conveniently, just expired. He has dispatched an emissary to make a similar offer to the [[General]] of the [[Fire of the South]] - and only the Fire of the South. In return for a [[Declaration]] of [[Concord]] in the [[Imperial Conclave]] inviting him to feast on the [[Mana site|mana sites]] and [[Herb garden|herb gardens]] of the Brass Coast, he will instruct the knights currently in the Barrens to join the Freeborn army in Kahraman. As long as they were fighting the Jotun or the Grendel, the grim knights of Tharim would provide 1,000 force to the army. The agreement would begin immediately and last until the start of the Summer Solstice 386YE. During that time he would send his black frost to wither the plants and drain essence from the crystals to satiate his endless hunger. Each herb garden would produce 3 fewer drams of [[True Vervain|true vervain]], and each mana site would produce 1 fewer mana crystal for the same period as the knights fought alongside the army.
There is one other restriction; Tharim is unimpressed that his knights have recently been forced to fight alongside the [[Knights of Glory]]. He wants to be very clear that if the general of the Fire of the South accepts the aid of another eternal, forcing his warriors to fight alongside them, then he will end the deal immediately... but will still expect to exact his full payment. Assuming the Brass Coast accepts his offer, during the time fighting alongside the army Tharim believes his servants would have much to teach the Fire of the South about the best way to mercilessly crush those who dare to trespass in their dominion, and hints strongly that he might be minded to provide further aid after the year were over, assuming the army continued to embrace their implacable slaughter.
This opportunity is only available at the Summer Solstice.
## Three Sisters
SOPInner|statement=The question has been put to the hakima of our nation: "What are the defining qualities of a tribe founder?" Bakar i Riqueza calls the hakima to council to discuss this matter at Anvil at the Summer Solstice. Prosperity provides!|by=Rhaego i Zemress|vote=Greater Majority 184-0|when=Spring Equinox 385YE
OOC Note
While we appreciate that there is an appeal for players in creating a legacy by altering the setting in such a fundamental way, adding a fourth tribe is not a [[Change|change]] that we plan to allow. Unfortunately in this case, more is categorically less. Three tribes allows for clear distinctions between them, each with their own individual identity and self-expression. Adding a fourth tribe blurs all those differences, and that makes each tribe less distinctive, less unique and ultimately less important. The more tribes you have - the less important tribe becomes.
Freeborn players already have a great way to create important social distinctions between groups of characters that are new and very much under their control. The family structure is a really important part of Freeborn life - and is very much intended to allow players to create their own distinct cultural and familial identities. We encourage everyone in the Brass Coast to give their families as much character and background as they can.
It is not impossible that the Brass Coast might one day include a fourth tribe, but it would have to be an epochal event, such as incorporating orcs into the nation, that genuinely spoke to a completely new outlook for the nation. It would be equivalent to Wintermark developing a new tradition.
It's perhaps unsurprising in this time of chaos, with threats to the east and the west, that the Freeborn are questioning what the future holds. During the Spring Equinox, Rhaego i Zemress posed a question that has raised eyebrows among the Freeborn priests who have heard of it. "What are the defining qualities of a tribe founder?" they asked. For almost every citizen of the Brass Coast, the answer appears to be extremely straightforward: the defining qualities of the founders of the tribes, was that they were Riqueza, Erigo, and Guerra, and they founded the Brass Coast.
Of course each of the sisters had unique qualities: Riqueza was the joyous spirit of freedom in the Brass Coast, celebrating everything that life had to offer. Guerra was the visionary spirit of idealism, she believed that three families could found a nation and inspired a nation to free not one but two people. Erigo was the courageous spirit of daring, ready to dare any venture without fear of the risks.
But the defining quality, the one thing they all have in common is that they each worked, together, to found the nation. The tribes are the tribes because they look to the three sisters who built the nation for inspiration. Nobody else could become a "tribe founder" because nobody else founded the Brass Coast. Of course there are other figures who have had great influence, or great importance to individual families, but by definition they did not found the Brass Coast and the idea that they might be as important to all the people of the Brass Coast as the three sisters? It is not one that the people countenance.
Even the Zemress islanders don't call for Zemress to be recognised as the founder of a tribe. They append the name of Zemress to their family name, before their tribal name, to show their affection for and connection to the exemplar. Yet they still, overwhelmingly, see themselves as Guerra, Erigo, and Riqueza. Indeed, that connection has done more to help them become true citizens of the Brass Coast than anything else. Likewise, the Freefolk who have discussed joining the Brass Coast have always done so on the understanding that they would become part of the tribes, not stand apart from them.
Signififcant concerns remain that this approach, fails to take proper account of the unique history of the Zemress Islanders and the Free Folk. To break the deadlock, Rhaego i Zemress, proposes a different solution. He has been collaborating with several prominent Freeborn citizens, Bakar i Riqueza, Ahshen i Fiel i Guerra, Azir i Shartha i Riqueza, Rocio i Fijadoz i Guerra, and Marta i Guerra to name but a few. While he can't speak for them, he has spoken with them and many of the others who have been working on this thorny problem. 
The idea he proposes is that people who joining the Freeborn nation adapt their names to match their personal history. Rhaego's suggestion is that native Freeborn retain the traditional naming convention of Given Name i Family Name i Tribe Name. When others join the nation from elsewhere they can choose to demonstrate their Proud heritage by adopting another name between the family name and the tribe name. As a Zemress Islander, Rhaego could then announce themselves as Rhaego i Ezmara i Zemress i Erigo - if they wished to use their full name. Of course some Freeborn would shorten the names in some situations, some would drop some parts for political reasons - for instance to show allegiance to the whole nation rather than one family or tribe. 
Such a proposal might preserve the founding nature of the Three Sisters, ensuring that their place in Freeborn society remains sacrosanct, but give room for those who join the nation to bring their own Proud heritage with them. The idea is met with a range of opinions, some people think it's a terrible, some people think it is a wonderful idea. But what is clear is that there is not immovable resistance to the proposal. One problem people point out is the Assembly would need to decide on how to describe that new part of the name, since it's not family or tribe, what would it be called? Crucially if the Freeborn Assembly coalesced around a proposal of that kind, and supported it wholeheartedly, then it would be quickly accepted by the nation.
## Last of the Justicars
SOP|statement=We, the Freeborn National Assembly, condemn Asavea for their unconscionable slaughter of the Justicars of the Isle of Osseini, unarmed under contract of the Grendel occupation. The Justicars predate the Empire in their learning, teaching, and the practice or exorcism, their names shall not be forgotten, and we will not let their legacy fade. Let us rally and support what Justicars yet remain, and rebuild the order elsewhere in the Brass Coast.|by=Constanza i Kalamar i Guerra|vote=Greater Majority 166-0|when=Spring Equinox 385YE
Last season, [[Asavean Archipelago|Asavean]] warships attacked the [[Feroz#Isle of the Osseini|Isle of the Osseini]] and the [[Corsair]] town of Shantarim, destroying both and murdering every Freeborn citizen they could catch.
The [[Justicar of Osseini|Sanctuary of the Justicars]] was intended to provide a place for Freeborn priests interested in exorcism to study and to share their skills. Sadly it was built in a very dangerous location, and was always at risk after Feroz fell as a result. The deliberate provocations of Governor Rahab and the attack on Chalonsio provoked the Empire's enemies to act and the justicars have paid the ultimate price.
Those justicars who remain in play are now the last of their kind still living. They are the only remaining heirs to a tradition whose learning and lore was destroyed when Osseini was torched. The arts of exorcism have never been widespread in the Brass Coast, for there are precious few ghosts there. With the inhabitants of the Isle of the Osseini all slain, the handful of PCs who survive are the only ones who endure. It will take a generation or more to rebuild the order; the immediate challenge for those who still live will be to carry the legacy with them.
## Rage of the Corsairs
SOP|statement=Our corsairs are the wolves of the Bay and our enemies are their prey. When war is declared on Asavea, we encourage our corsairs to prioritise hunting their ships above all others and their supply ships as first among them. "Foam Follower" the ship supplying the Temple of the Black Bull and Balo alone should be untouched. Remember those who aid us.|by=Mina i Yashum i Riqueza|vote=Greater Majority 186-10|when=Spring Equinox 385YE
* The Freeborn Assembly could set the Corsairs loose to take vengeance on the Asaveans
* They could also urge them to break the blockade of Sumaah
The justicars of the Isle of Osseini were not the only people harmed by the Asavean warships, however. The Freeborn town of Shantarim was razed, and many [[Corsair]] families butchered in the process. The anger of the Freeborn is palpable, expressed by the statement of principle upheld by their assembly. Yet even as the smoke is dissipating over the ravaged islands of Feroz, word begins to reach the Empire that the Asaveans have struck against their allies the [[Sumaah Republic]] as well. They have, in fact, created a blockade of the waters around the Sumaah coast, turning back trading vessels from neutral nations and sinking those belonging to Imperial, Sumaah, or [[Commonwealth]] captains. Neither Sumaah nor the Commonwealth can match the maritime might of the Asaveans - but the Freeborn could even the odds a little. This leaves the assembly with a decision, should they wish to inspire the corsairs to take action in the west.
There are two possible mandates the Freeborn National Assembly could consider. The first urges vengeance on the Asaveans:
Mandate|mandate=The murderous actions of the Asavean warships are unconscionable; the slaughtered corsairs and justicars cry out for vengeance. We send {named priest} with 50 doses of liao to urge our corsairs to strike against Asavea; sink their ships, raid their coasts, burn their supply ships to the waterline. Only you will know when the punishment is enough.|assembly=Freeborn National Assembly
If this mandate is enacted, the corsairs will seek to avenge the destruction of Shantarim and the attack on the Isle of the Osseini. Privateers will harry Asavean ships wherever they encounter them, and many will travel to the [[The seven seas#Sea of Salt|Sea of Salt]] to take the fight to the satrapies. Civilian and military vessels alike will be engaged, and coastal communities will be raided. This mandate will create an [[Fleet#Adventures|adventure]] for any Freeborn [[Fleet]] owner with the corsair [[Archetype]], found under the [[Fleet#Take Independent Action|Independent action]] dropdown called ''Vengeance of the Corsairs''. In place of its normal production, the fleet will produce 90 rings in luxury goods, 3 ingots of [[Orichalcum]], and 2 measures of [[Iridescent gloaming]], seized from the Asaveans, with a fleet that has been [[Fleet#Upgrade|upgraded]] or [[Enchantment|enchanted]] receiving proportionately more. It will also send an unmistakable message to the Asaveans that they strike against the Brass Coast at their own risk.  
Alternatively, the assembly might urge the corsairs to eschew their vengeance against the Asaveans directly and instead urge them to attack the blockade levelled against the Sumaah Republic.
Mandate|mandate=The Sumaah are our allies and we are united with them by our shared love of Zemress. We send {named priest} with 50 doses of liao to urge the corsairs to thwart the Asavean blockade of the Sumaah coast. Harass their warships to let the traders reach the port of Zemeh!|assembly=Freeborn National Assembly
If this mandate is enacted, the corsairs will be urged to fight the Asaveans in Sumaah coastal waters, to help break the blockade. They don't have the power to break the blockade, but their efforts will be enough to allow some ships to slip through. That will remove the penalty to trade with Zemeh experienced by Imperial traders. This will also create an adventure for corsairs, called ''Thwart the Blockade'', which will allow a standard fleet to help attack the Asavean ships in Sumaah, and provide a standard fleet with 72 rings and 2 doses of [[Liao]] from the grateful Sumaah. It will also show the Asaveans that the Freeborn stand with their allies among the Sumaah.
Soratio i Del Toro i Guerra has offered a mandate that would see the National Assembly encourage the corsairs to instead focus on the dangers closer to home.
Mandate|mandate=Now is not a time for vengeance but for Vigilance - The Asaveans' strikes are but a precursor to the greater threat. We send {named priest} with 50 doses of liao to urge our corsairs to guard the Bay against barbarians - prepare for malice, and thwart it before it strikes again.|assembly=Freeborn National Assembly
If this mandate is enacted, the rage of the corsairs will be tempered and instead of looking to strike back at the Asaveans they will instead focus on defending the Bay of Catazar. This would not create an adventure for corsairs, nor would it see the penalty to trade with Zemeh removed.
Tabris, Son of Armisael has offered an alternate mandate, using the [[Full of sacred sound#Partner of Greatness|Partners of Greatness]] power, to the Highguard National Assembly.
Mandate|mandate=The Sumaah are our cousins in Virtue and it behoves us to build up our fellows, rather that let them languish under a blockade of Idolaters. We send {named priest} with 50 doses of liao to urge the sailors and fleet captains of Highguard to journey to Sumaah, in order to aid them against the Asavean blockade.|assembly=Highborn National Assembly
If this mandate is passed it will allow Highborn fleets to take part in the ''Thwart the Blockade'' adventure. It would not be enough to remove the penalty on trade with Zemeh experience by Imperial traders.
### Enacting the Mandates
The mandates available to the Freeborn National Assembly are in competition; if more than one is upheld the one that passes by the largest margin will be successful. If one is passed, the effects will last for at least the next year, until the start of the Summer Solstice 386YE, or until the situation changes dramatically. However, once the Summer Solstice ends, there will be no further opportunities to direct the Freeborn corsairs against the Asaveans unless another similar inciting incident takes place.
## Further Reading
* [[Not a drop to drink]] - 385YE Spring wind of fortune about the situation in Madruga
* [[Shallows and miseries]] - 385YE Spring Wind of War detailing the recent events in Kahraman and surrounding area