---
IgnoreLinking: false
Tags:
- 385YE-Summer
- Recent-History
- Winds-of-Fortune
Title: Ruin
draft: false
revision_date: 2023-07-28 08:04:51+00:00
revision_id: 103995
---

"So..." said Caryl, and then trailed off.
"Yeah. So indeed." Gawn was pale as new-fallen snow, and kept blinking as if trying to clear something from his eyes. He sat down heavily.
"I take it you've seen..." again Caryl trailed off.
"My own horrific, violent, bloody, murder?" Gawn tried to make a joke of it but failed miserably. Caryl reflected on how irksome it was that he always tried to laugh off serious matters. Sometimes, she thought tangentially, the mood does not ''need'' lightening. She set her feelings to one side, however, remembering how shocking it had been when she'd seen her own brutal slaughter in the Pool. Gawn needed support, now. They all did.
"So I think you're the last. That's everyone now?" said Caryl, although she already knew the answer to the question. Gawn nodded, his eyes unfocused.
The Visions had begun to take a violent turn three days ago with Lleucu Cloudwatcher. The elder vate had been literally struck dumb for an hour, unable to do anything but shiver. For a little while Caryl was worried she might not come back from wherever it was that the Pool's vision had sent her. In time though she had collected her wits and shared what she'd seen. Herself, murdered. All of them, murdered. The Pool destroyed and nothing left but ashes. One by one each of the others had seen the same thing, or a variation thereof. The Pool's revelations were rarely this clear. When they were, as they had last been when they'd shown the ground opening up and swallowing innocent people of four nations, they'd been able to head off the terrible loss of life. This time...
"I saw the Dean as well," said Gawn abruptly. 
"Which one? Not the Varushkan, surely?" Caryl was again reasonably sure she knew the answer. She hadn't seen him herself but both Niamh and Taulupe had described someone who sounded a lot like a vate she'd once met briefly in Seren.
"Bledri." Gawn was speaking slowly as if forcing the words out was an effort, his body obviously struggling with the stress of the vision. "Bledri [[Eternal]]. Not here though. I think they were at [[Anvil]]. I'm sure of it in fact. Bledri, at Anvil, talking to...someone? Several people? I didn't really see..."
"Saw him in a good way, or a bad way?" Asked Caryl quickly. Gawn shook his head. 
"No idea," he said, his eyes drooping, barely able to stay awake. "But it means ''something'' surely?"
"Everything means ''something''," replied Caryl, waspish in spite of herself. "The trick is working out what that something means and whether it helps but oh you're already asleep. Damn."
She watched Gawn slump back in his seat, mouth open, snoring gently in that extremely irritating way he had. She paused to slip a pillow under his head and then went to find Lleulcu. It was time to decide what to do, and to try and find a version of the future in which the Pool was preserved, no matter how unlikely that might turn out to be.
audio|link=https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Aez9yiebV7I
## Overview
From the point of view of mortals, the heavens are mostly immovable. The stars are where they are, shifting only slightly as the year turns, and with a noticeable rhythm. There are a few rogue stars, however, the most famous of which is [[The Wanderer]] - the red-eyed constellation of things going wrong and the machinations of an uncaring fate. Philosophers argue whether the stars somehow influence Events beneath them, or if they merely reflect the tides in the affairs of thinking beings. It's unlikely anyone, except possibly the Creator, knows the answer to that question. Regardless, the stars come into [[Alignment]] as the currents of [[Magic]] and the tenor of events shift. 
There has been an ongoing Entanglement of esoteric stars for some time now - The Lock and The Key have been circling and bouncing off one another (metaphorically at least) for at least a year now, and have pUlled The Web and The Spider into a chaotic twisting association that even the wisest astronomancers struggle to untangle. It seems that ongoing conjunction is coming to a head, as whatever events have inSpired it are moving to a conclusion. And not before time!  
At the same time however, the astronomancers of [[The Empire]] spot another worrying development. A ''second'' conjunction is underway, one that is significantly more apparent and impactful than that of the Lock and the Key; a greater conjunction with the potential to twist and bend magical law. This second conjunction will be strongest during the Summer Solstice itself. The Wanderer is moving into alignment part-way between [[The Claw]] and [[The Three Sisters]]. Things bleed. Things are connected by blood. Things are not what they seem. Battle, destruction, violence. Consequences, ties of blood, sorrow. Destiny, fate, chance. Not an auspicious set of affairs by any stretch.
## The Lesser Conjunction
* The Lock and the Key are altering [[The Way]] certain Rituals work
As the conjunction of [[The Key and The Lock]] apparently moves toWards some kind of climax, the tension between ''things are revealed'' and ''things can be hidden'' continues to play havoc with Imperial divinations. For the last year or so there have been reports of odd figures appearing at Anvil, Generally when one or both of the constellation is high in the sky. There's some evidence that they are wild tulpas, spawned by the friction between the two esoteric constellations and given form by the Imperial [[Regio]]. There's also the fact that the star's influence (or the events the conjunction reflects) have been leading to (or illustrating) some peculiar magical effects. Divination rituals continue to provide peculiar responses, either unexpectedly clear or unexpectedly obscure. The additional influence of [[The Spider and The Web]], and the lingering impact of the Wanderer, is bringing matters to a head - and twisting Imperial magic out of true in the process. 
### Watched
* Something weird is going on with Cast Off [[The Chain]] of Memory and has been for the last few months
* A special option is available when it is cast at the Imperial regio and a measure of [[Iridescent gloaming]] is used
It's not a matter of record who first noticed the odd thing about Cast Off The Chain of Memory. It's just become one of those things people know. They remember hearing it from a friend of a friend, or overhearing it in a bar, or discussing it with... someone? Either way, it's a thing and when someone tried it out it turned out to be a thing that ''worked''. The most likely explanation is this weird ongoing churning conjunction. At the moment, if you perform ''Cast Off the Chain of Memory'' but when you're doing it you write down the memory you want to get rid of with Iridescent gloaming, as long as you don't go over exactly ninety-nine words something happens. The paper folds in on itself and disappears along with the memory you described. Then, overnight, you get something back. A new memory. A different memory. And while you may remember that you didn't always remember that memory, it's easy to forget that it's new. Which has resulted in some people getting very odd looks when they confidently spin a tale of being at a wedding that never happened, or visiting a place that never existed, or having met someone who isn't real. Or at least weddings, places, and people that don't exist ''here'' and ''now''.
There's been some similar things happening around the tulpas of the Lock and Key, apparently, so it makes sense to assume that's what's happening here as well. It's apparently been going on for a few months, but with things coming to a head it's not clear if it will keep on happening. While it seems to be just a little bit of eerie [[Night magic]] fun, [[Worth]] trying once for the novelty, not everyone thinks it so innocent. A few magicians are suspicious about what's happening to the memories written down and where the new memory is coming from, and so urge caution. Some magical phenomena are unwise to experiment with.
OOC Process: When performing Cast Off the Chain of Memory at the Imperial regio, the target can write down the memory they intend to lose in as much detail as they like, as long as it doesn't go over ninety-nine words. The ink needs to be infused with a measure of iridescent gloaming (given to the ref during the casting), and the paper needs to have the targets PID on the back. The memory recorded must be a real memory that is being removed with the ritual or nothing happens. At the completion of the ritual, if the other criteria are met, the paper disappears and takes the memory with it. Before going into play next morning, you can visit the regio again (''not'' GOD) to receive a written description of a new memory that your character now remembers having experienced.
If you have any out of character phobias, traumatic subjects, or experiences you'd wish to avoid reading about, you can include them on the reverse of the paper along with your PID.
### Crescendo
* The rituals Swim [[Leviathan]]'s Depth, [[Clear Counsel of the Everflowing River]], and [[Combing the Beach]] will be restricted during the Summer Solstice
For some time now, some of the eternals contacted by ritual magic via the Imperial regio have been complaining of "loud [[Music]]" interfering with their ability to hear Imperial magicians. Heralds of Leviathan, [[Sung]], and [[Roshanwe]] have all sent heralds to Anvil to warn that the music is getting louder, reaching a crescendo. They separately anticipate that it will peak on Sunday, the final day of the summit. As a consequence of this inaudible symphony, the rituals Swim Leviathan's Depth, Clear Counsel of the Everflowing River, and Combing the Beach will not function on Sunday. If attempted, the ritual fails and the mana will be returned to the coven who tried to cast them. 
As such, all three eternals caution that during the coming solstice Imperial magicians will have one window of Opportunity to pose questions (on Friday), and one to receive answers (on Saturday). Hopefully, after this crescendo, the music will fade again but if it does not then it may represent an ongoing threat to Imperial magicians' ability to deploy these three divinatory rituals.
### Observer Effects (Participation)
As with previous seasons, if you perform a divination ritual, use a spell such as [[Detect Magic]] or [[Operate Portal]] to gather information, or employ the [[Insight]] ceremony, you are free to roleplay that the information you receive comes to you via an unexpected sense, or requires additional interpretation, or is remarkably clear. Rituals in [[Imperial lore]] likely to be affected include: [[An Echo of Life Remains]], [[Bright Lantern of Ophis]], [[Clear Lens of the Eternal River]], Dreams in [[The Witch]] House]], [[Eye of the High Places]], Eyes of the Soul's Past, [[Eyes of the Sun and Moon]], [[Hakima]]'s Glass, [[Hand of the Maker]], Secrets of the Soul's Desire, [[Shadowed Glass of Sung]], [[Signs and Portents]], [[Skein of Years]], [[Ties that Bind]], and [[Wisdom of the Balanced Blade]].
Some Rituals where Profound Decisions provides information may also be affected by this peculiar effect. Again, the information will not be wrong, or intentionally misleading, but it may be delivered in an odd way or include unexpected side effects as a result of the ongoing conjunction.
## The Greater Conjunction
* Magicians can call on the power of the conjunction to call or unleash violent entities
* Events that remind people of familial conflicts are more likely to happen
The last greater conjunction of the stars took place a year ago and inspired devastating magical storms. The trepidation of astronomancers when they realise another greater or conjunction is imMinent, taking place at the same time as four other constellations are locked in an intricate arcane dance, is perhaps understandable. While this alignment of Wanderer, Claw, and Three Sisters is nowhere near as potent as that of a year ago, its effects are still significant. It seems to herald, or reflect, a period of turmoil and conflict. This aspect of the Claw represents struggle, violence, and battle. The Three Sisters in this aspect speak of sorrow, consequences of actions, and conflict between those who have close ties to one another. It is perhaps easy to look at current Events in the Empire and see the influence of these constellations. There's also a direct magical effect from this conjunction, which may be of more interest to practical magicians than questions of history or philosophy.
### Blood and Consequences
* Between Sunrise and Sunset on Saturday, magicians can draw on the power of the conjunction to perform Rituals that call entities from the eternal realms
* Using the power requires access to a powerful Regio (such as the Imperial Regio)
* All contributors to cut themselves at the start, and all are reduced to 0 hits at the end
* In return each contributor gains +1 rank of the appropriate lore to perform that ritual
* For purposes of the conjunction, sunrise is considered to be "time in" at 10am and sunset is considered to be 10 pm. 
During the height of the conjunction - Saturday of the Summer Solstice between sunrise and sunset - the Imperial Regio resonates with the power of the stars. During this time, the threshold between the mortal world and the eternal realms will be weakened, and some magic that draws on the creatures and spirits from outside the mundane will be more powerful - provided the ritualists are prepared to face the consequences. 
By drawing on the power of the conjunction a with a powerful regio (such as the Anvil regio), the ritualists can greatly [[Empower]] rituals that invite destructive of violent spirits or creatures into the Empire. Such rituals must either unleash uncontrolled spirits, usually in the form of a [[Curse]], or call entities to support military endeavours. At the beginning of the ritual, each contributor must roleplay inflicting a small cut on themselves, and allow the blood to flow freely. They then perform the ritual as if they had +1 rank in the appropriate lore. At the completion of the ritual, all contributors immediately drop to 0 hits and begin dying. 
A given character can only draw on this power ''once'' during the summit - if they attempt it a second time they are immediately reduced to 0 hits and begin dying, and gain no benefit. Note that ''everyone'' involved in performing the ritual draws on the power, even if they don't need the additional ranks: all must inflict the bleeding wound and all are reduced to 0 hits even if they are not part of the coven (due to using an item such as a Volhov's Robe) or belong to an entirely ''different'' coven cooperating thanks to an item such as a [[Web of Celestial Attunement]] or an ArchMages Belt of Stars).
The conjunction explicitly affects the following rituals: 
* Rituals that summon heralds to support an army, [[Fortification]], or [[Military unit]]: [[Fire on the Water]], [[Knights of Glory]], [[Clarion Call of Ivory and Dust]]. Accoutrements of [[War]], Machines of Destruction, [[Golden Ramparts]], Wolves of Winter, [[Quickening Cold Meat]]
* Rituals that call forth warriors from a personal resource: [[Raise the Dragonsworn Cohort]], [[Conclave of Trees and Shadow]], [[Carve the Crystal Guardian]], [[Lions of Phoenix Reach]]
* Rituals that unleash uncontrolled spirits to bedevil a territory: [[Foam and Spittle of the Furious Sea]], [[Thunderous Tread of the Trees]], Winter's Ghosts
Other rituals from other sources might also be affected, but they must explicitly call denizens for potentially violent purposes. Simply drawing on the power of an eternal is not enough, nor is summoning creatures for peaceful purposes - the [[Net of Gossamer Chains]] for example cannot be empowered with this ritual.
### Conflict and [[Family]] (Participation)
* Events conspire to remind people of, and exacerbate, familial conflicts
* This effect is entirely opt-in, there is no requirement of any kind to be affected by this
The influence of the stars, or of the tides of magic, can be more subtle than the most understated Autumn ritual. During the Summer solstice, Events conspire to remind people of past conflicts with members of their family (however they define it). Similarly, seemingly minor things happen that exacerbate existing conflicts. Throughout the event, players are enCouraged toward conflict with those they have close familial ties to. This takes the form of reminders of past arguments, settled and otherwise. Of people being more cognizant of the things their loved ones do that annoy them. Of bad habits. Of feeling taken for granted. Of unspoken rivalries and unrealised resentments. Acting on these sentiments - finding an excuse to have an argument or make a biting remark at the expense of someone your character has a familial tie to - feels especially satisfying with the stars in the alignment they currently share.
This effect is entirely opt-in; it isn't a traditional Roleplaying effect that needs to be overcome, it's a minor background theme for the event. One of the most common reasons we create game effects like this is to give people opportunities to roleplay things they might not normally roleplay - and to give them a justification for why their character is doing that. It exists to give players the potential for new things to roleplay at the event, ''if they want to do that''. If this isn't something that would make your event more enjoyable, then you shouldn't do it.
If you do choose to use it to inform your roleplaying, there's no requirement to engage in actual violence (unless that's appropriate to your characterisation), and you should always remain cognizant of our Conduct rules when engaging with this element.
## Battle and Sorrow
* There are reports of unfamiliar entities moving to attack several locations
As visitors begin to arrive at Anvil, some of them bring worrying news which seems at least on the surface like it might be related to one or both of the astronomantic [[Conjunctions]]. There are reports of unfamiliar soldiers moving to attack locations in disparate parts of the Empire, slaughtering anyone who gets in their way. There is an obvious connection between these [[Bands]] of attackers - they are described as having the proportions of humans or orcs, but not ''being'' either humans or orcs. They're all reported as wearing blue sashes with a "military look". They kill implacably, without mercy, without even pausing to listen to their victims. 
The Prognosticators are swiftly able to determine that Conjunctions of the [[Sentinel Gate]] exist that allow Imperial [[Heroes]] to intercept these reported warriors. There's very little notice, however, and no chance to get soldiers or garrisons into position in time to intercept the attacks. It's pure chance that these reports have reached Anvil in time to find these conjunctions, and some magicians are of the opinion that the only reason there is any warning at all is the subtle influence of unleashed [[Autumn magic]] resonating with travel and communication.
### What follows in shadow (Conjunction)
"''Threes, and threes and threes, Always the three come, Always the three fall.Hear the spark of the fireSee the broken grasses,Watch the deeps fill.''"Wise Ville, [[Mystic]] of Ishal
* A division of the mysterious attackers are moving towards the Aviary of Ishal
* [[The Sentinel]] Gate will open at 17:30 on Saturday to Maiko's Copse, Skymark, [[Kallavesa]]
* The ''[[Raven Seer]]'' is responsible for protecting the Aviary of Ishal
The first group of attackers reported to Anvil are in Kallavesa. They apparently emerged in northern Skymark, and began heading south. They were spotted by the tenders of one of the beacons that provid advance warning of threats to [[Wintermark]]. The entire garrison of that unfortunate beacon was butchered, but not before they heroically sent out an alarm. The attackers are heading directly towards the settlement of Ishal and the mystics who make their home there. While Ishal may be able to defend itself, directly in their path lies the Aviary of the Raven Seers. Several of the seers, including the well-beloved ''Maiko Greywolf'', have attempted to gather more information about these invaders, but all contact with them have been lost. 
Given that this represents a direct threat to the Aviary of Ishal it is responsibility of the Raven [[Seer]]; Odelia Nelda, to protect the Aviary and deal with the mysterious attackers. The prognosticators have identified a conjunction that will allow a small group of heroes to reach ''Maiko's Copse'' near the town - the grove where the respected mystic and their friends regularly gather to observe the stars and the flight of [[Birds]]. There is a good chance that if the attackers are not intercepted successfully, they will destroy the Aviary and slaughter many of the mystics who reside there before presumably continuing to attack the town of Ishal itself.
### Old friends and new threats (Conjunction)
* A division of the mysterious attackers are moving towards the prime harp of the Harps of [[Astolat]]
* The [[Sentinel]] Gate will open at 18:00 on Saturday to The Gardens of House Cadence, Winterbourne, Astolat
* The ''[[High Bard of the Empire]]'' is responsible for protecting the Harps of Astolat
Even as the prognosticators are racing to find a conjunction to allow heroes to protect the Aviary at Ishal, news of a second group of warriors arrives. This group are [[On the other side]] of the Empire, in Astolat. At first the assumption is that they will be quickly dealt with by nobles, knights, and armed yeofolk but this turns out to very much not be the case. There are garbled reports of a clash with one of the minor houses who were in the middle of celebrating the victory in [[The Barrens]],during which all the Dawnish were killed or forced to [[Fleet]]. In a similar manner to the first group of attackers, this second group appear to be moving in roughly a straight line. The first major settlement they will reach is the town of Weaving. Weaving itself is not undefended; the knights and witches of ''House Cadence'' are apparently already en route to protect the yeofolk and the weavers there but it's not certain they will be able to save the town. Before they reach Weaving itself, they will almost certainly pass by the prime instrument of the Harps of Astolat. 
Given that this represents a direct threat to one of the most important and inspirational musical instruments in The Empire, it is responsibility of the High Bard of the Empire; Protectorate Rile, to intercede, most likely in conjunction with the noble families of Astolat. If this central harp is destroyed the entire web of musical instruments that criss-cross the territory will go awry. This will remove the benefits they apply, and might conceivably make the situation even worse, potentially disrupting the production of mana in Astolat in unpredictable ways. It is likely to be expensive and time-consuming to "retune" the harps to their former [[Glory]], should that even be possible.
### Neither beginning nor end (Conjunction)
* A division of the mysterious attackers are moving towards the Pool of Silver Clouds
* The Sentinel Gate will open at 18:30 on Saturday the Verdant Grove, Goldglades, [[Miaren]]
* The ''[[Dean of the Thorned Rose]]'' is responsible for protecting the Pool of Silver Clouds
The third group of attackers are reported as having emerged in the foothills of central Locul in [[Temeschwar]], but the warning comes from Miaren. Specifically, the vates who study the Pool of Silver Clouds in Goldglades have sent a messenger to Anvil, calmly informing the [[Navarr]] of a threat that their divinations say they cannot endure. There's some confusion; the messenger must have set off some time ago, before the first of the attackers was spotted in Kallavesa. The vates' messenger explains that while they didn't know the specifics, the seers of the Pool of Silver Clouds foresaw their own deaths some six weeks ago. They also divined that the only chance to avert their murders, and the destruction of the magical pool they tend, was to send a messenger to [[Casinea]] and tell the Dean of the Thorned Rose what their visions had revealed. The attackers must be intercepted at a place called the ''Verdant Grove'' in northern Goldglades. If they aren't stopped there, it is inevitable that they will achieve their goal and destroy both the seers and the pool. When asked for more details, the messenger can only say that the Pool is better at predicting disasters than it is in providing information about how they may be avoided - as evidenced by the opening of the sinkhole.
The civil service aren't entirely sure what to make of this, but the prognosticators confirm The the Sentinel Gate will allow a group of heroes to reach the Verdant Grove on Saturday evening. Given the comments of the vates who are most directly threatened, it is the responsibility of the Dean of the Thorned Rose; Bledri Eternal, to protect the Pool and deal with the attackers. Where the prophecies of peculiar vates are concerned, it is perhaps best to be err on the side of taking them seriously particularly when they have proven correct in the recent past.
### A Violent Mystery
* There's still no indication who or what these attackers are
That these soldiers are violent is not in doubt - they've apparently already killed most of the people who have been unfortunate enough to encounter them. If there's a connection between their three targets it's not clear exactly what it is. It's also not clear ''what'' these attackers are. Prognosticator Atraxes cautiously opines that they might be tulpas of some kind, but their appearance doesn't match any known form of emanations from the constellations involved in the conjunctions. His colleague Ingvarn Thunderbrow ponders if it might be something to do with the [[Thule]], while a more prosaic Marcher prognosticator by the name of Mary Gaddhook says they might well turn out to be mundane bandits banking on Imperial credulity to make themselves seem more threatening than they actually are. Regardless, whichever Imperial heroes go to intercept them may find it useful to ascertain who or what they are dealing with, once the immediate threat is ended.
## Different Tides
* Conjunctions influence Magic in many different ways
While the wind of fortune talks in terms of [[Astronomancy]], the tides of Magic, fate, and chance that they refer to are also mirrored in other Magical traditions. When someone tries to do a skein reading with [[Runes]], they might find [[Queros]], [[Jotra]], [[Ophis]], and [[Wyr]] showing up more often than they expect. A dramaturgist may feel drawn to the role of [[The Captain]] or The Witch, especially in their more tumultuous and destructive aspects, or a playwright might be inspired to relocate an entire scene from [[The Library]] to [[The Garden]] or [[The Battlefield]], or vice versa. In many ways, the astronomantic constellations are just the most visible reflection of the currents of Magic and destiny at work in The Empire. Which is unsurprising perhaps, given they are the largest.
Likewise, any player is free to create a minor personal omen related to one of these Conjunctions. Perhaps the family conflict element manifests for a League character by a constant itching or mild allergic reaction to [[The Ring]] that represents their [[Loyalty]] to their spouse or their family name. Perhaps a [[Dedication]] dream brings to mind a conflict from the past that was never satisfactorily resolved, or that lead to the dreamer abandoning their goals. The more roleplaying-themed elements of these Conjunctions are intended to inTroduce themes into the game that players might enjoy riffing off, to give them an excuse to explore different parts of their character and the game.