---
IgnoreLinking: False
Tags: ['Recent-History', '381YE-Autumn', 'Winds-of-Fortune', 'Winds-of-Magic']
Title: Seals and stars
aliases: ['Seals_and_stars']
draft: False
revision_date: 2022-01-28 13:21:38+00:00
revision_id: 86108
---

Matje shouted as loud as she could.
She was almost immediately answered by the thunder of heavy feet along the wooden quay as her father, her brother, and her aunt came running.
"Matje! Matje! What is wrong!" asked her aunt, grabbing her by the shoulders. Her father spotted it immediately.
"Ukko!" he shouted, horrified, pointing. Matje buried her face in her aunt's bosom, sobbing.
"I told him not to go so far out! I told him!" she cried.
Caught in the dark current, the little coracle bobbed and twisted among chunks of ice - the teeth of the lake as some of the older fisherfolk called them. They could crush a boat between them - or a little boy.
Her father and her brother were already shucking out of their clothes, kicking off their boots, ready to brave the frozen waters of the Sarda. They were almost certainly doomed to failure - even at the height of [[Summer|summer]] the waters of the Sarda were icy cold, and hungry.
As brother Artu made ready to dive into the water, her aunt suddenly stiffened and gasped. 
"What is that in the water?" She pointed. A bald head had emerged from the frigid lakewater near the coracle. It was quickly joined by another, and then a third. They surrounded the little hide boat, and began to nudge it back towards the shore.
The moment the boat brushed against the dock, her father grabbed Ukko up out of it, into a crushing embrace, tears [[Streaming|streaming]] down his face. 
As soon as the boy was safely on land, the three seals flipped smoothly in the water, and flashed away through the water, leaving the little [[Family|family]] alternately crying and berating little Ukko, and thanking the spirits of the Sarda who had brought him back to them.
## Stars
* The stars have still not returned to the [[Night|night]] sky over much of [[The Empire|the Empire]].
As with previous seasons, the night skies over most [[The Empire|the Empire]] (and several adjacent territories including [[Mournwold]], [[Liathaven]], and [[The Barrens]]) remain empty of stars. [[Naga]] living in those territories are subject to the shroud's peculiar influence ... and as [[Casinea]] (the location of [[Anvil]]) is still affected, any [[Naga|naga]] attending the summit [[Will|will]] still begin to feel their natural urge toward subtlety and secretiveness is greatly strengthened. (OOC note: players are urged to read the [[Darkest night]] wind of fortune from the [[Spring]] event to refresh themselves as the details of this effect and bear in mind that the skies directly over [[Anvil]] also appear normal for some complicated and subtle reason).
The night skies are clear over [[Morrow]], [[Spiral]], [[Redoubt]], [[Miekarova]], and  [[Skarsind]]. While the "empty sky" phenomenon has been removed from [[Zenith]] as well, [[Urizen]] inhabitants report that a Penumbral Veil has again settled over the [[Territory|territory]] - despite an earlier one having been removed during the Summer Solstice. The [[Druj]], no doubt, looking to conceal their activities from Imperial magicians. (OOC Note: [[Naga]] living in those territories are free of the odd influence ... but obviously coming to the event means they [[Will|will]] slowly start to fall under its sway again for the duration of their stay).
## Thorns
* Imperial citizens still lack the ability to access Spring [[Regio|regio]]. 
Imperial citizens continue to find it impossible to call on the power of Spring [[Regio|regio]]. As with the Summer Solstice, no Imperial citizen can draw on the power of a [[Regio|regio]] to enhance their ability to perform Spring [[Rituals|rituals]]. For purposes of performing [[Spring rituals]], the Imperial [[Regio|regio]] at [[Anvil]] is considered to be a Spring [[Regio|regio]].
Furthermore, no Imperial citizen can use the Imperial regio to target a [[Spring ritual]] at an Imperial Territory, nor use a regio in a territory to invoke [[Spring magic]] to affect the entire territory. This has a profound impact on the ability of Imperial magicians to use [[Rituals|rituals]] such as [[Foam and Spittle of the Furious Sea]], [[Forge the Wooden Fastness]], [[Rivers of Life]], [[Rivers Run Red]], [[Thunderous Tread of the Trees]], [[Mountain Remembers Its Youth]], [[Thunderous Deluge]], [[The Dance of Navarr and Thorn]], and [[Hallow of the Green World]]. In effect, these [[Rituals|rituals]] have become impossible to perform.
(OOC Note: Affected players are urged to read last season's Wind of Fortune to remind themselves of the ongoing effects.)
## Citadels
* Imperial magicians have raised castles across [[The Empire|the Empire]]
The power to raise magical citadels in key areas of [[The Empire|the Empire]] continues to be a valuable boon. Two icy citadels are conjured by the Blazing Sun [[Coven|coven]] of [[Highguard]]. One, raised in Clypion provides valuable [[Assistance|assistance]] to the Highborn armies protecting [[Zenith]] against the [[Druj]] invaders. The other is raised on the slopes of Chalcis Mount, overlooking the slow rebuilding of the territory and standing mute guard against any potential for surprise invasion.
With [[The Empire|the Empire]] still unable to access the full power of Spring [[Magic|magic]], it seems that the Sussivari Frost Coven are working hard to take up any slack caused by the inability to perform [[Forge the Wooden Fastness]]. The [[Wintermark]] coven raises ''four'' citadels of coiling mist, shadow, and [[Night magic]] to protect the Empire. In Ottermire, Grey Fens, in the Morass near [[Holberg]], and amid the marshes of the Upper Tarn Valley, the power of night is invoked to grant protection against the Empire's enemies.
The Empire is familiar with these magical citadels, but a new power is brought to bear in the months since the Summer Solstice. Wielding a hitherto-unknown [[Ritual|ritual]] named ''The Immaculate [[Architect]]'', the [[Urizen]] Concordium of [[Pallas]] bind potent [[Autumn magic]] into the construction of the [[Fortification|fortification]] being built in Broken Ride in [[Reikos]]. The powerful [[Enchantment|enchantment]] allows six months of work to take place in a scant twelve weeks, and sees the completion of the grand [[Fortification|fortification]] there well ahead of schedule.
## Blessing of the Hylje
* The hylje have ceased their raids against northern [[Wintermark]]
As summer ends, and [[Autumn|autumn]] approaches, there is a change on the shores of Atkonaroq. For nearly a year, the lake shore has been covered in the huts and tents of strange folk. 
A few days after the Summer summit, however, they begin to break camp. On an unspoken signal, almost as one, they walk into the lake. There are more than a few curious fisherfolk watching and the sight they see they say they [[Will|will]] remember forever. The lakefolk wrap their skins around themselves and, rippling and blurring, transform into the shape of large seals. At the forefront is a singular figure, his skin white with red striations. He leads the transformation, singing an achingly beautiful song of triumph as he leads his people beneath the waters of the lake.
Within a few hours, only a few smouldering fires and abandoned huts show any sign of their presence. There is no doubt in the minds of those that [[Witness|witness]] it that they have been in the presence of the ''hylje'', ancient cousins of the [[Suaq]] people.
For the next three months, sightings of seals in the waters of [[Sermersuaq]] increase ten-fold. Fishing boats find their nets unusually full – as if fish were literally being herded into their nets by the seals themselves. In the icy wastes, those who make a living hunting on the land find that the animals they hunt are noticeably plentiful - there are rumours of a strange figure dressed in a white sealskin speaking in an unknown tongue to a herd of mammoths, who duly walk slowly towards their death at the hands of the hunters. More than one sailor has a story of their ship being guided to calm waters and easy passages by the seals themselves. It seems the strange seal-folk of the northern wastes have seen fit to bestow their blessing on the people of [[Sermersuaq]].
The blessing shows no sign of abating as the Autumn equinox draws near. Furthermore, Sesi of the [[Suaq]] (one of the current hosts of Sulkavaris, the spirit of the nation) is reported to have received a mysterious delivery in the night from a barefooted young woman wrapped in a dark sealskin. He is being tight-lipped about the nature of the gift - but has said enough to confirm that it relates to the seal-folk, and that he wishes to speak to those who share his tradition at the coming summit about it.
### Significance
The blessing of the hylje seems set to continue through [[Winter]]. Assuming nothing else changes, any [[Wintermark]] character who owns a [[Fleet]] or a [[Farm]] in [[Sermersuaq]] receives a small bonus to their production in the coming [[Downtime|downtime]]. The bonus represents the aid of the magical seal people, the hylje, who are supporting farmers, hunters, and fisherfolk, as well as ships travelling through the cold northern waters.
## Grateful Dick
* Richard of [[Holberg]] [[Will|will]] design three magical structures for [[The Conclave|the Conclave]] in thanks for his rescue
Richard of [[Holberg]] is a staunch ally of [[Sadogua]] - rumour suggests the two are somewhat more than friends. When the [[Spire|spire]] of Evenstar in [[Redoubt]] fell to the [[Grendel]] in Winter 381YE, Richard was being treated by the [[Magician|magician]]-healers and apothecaries there. Taken as a slave by the [[Grendel]], he was rescued during the Summer Solstice by a band of heroic adventurers with the aid of the concerned [[Sadogua]].
Having recovered from his ordeal, and after some discussion with the ''Wyrm-King'', Richard has made an offer to the [[Imperial Conclave]] - to design a trio of magical structures for them. Trained at the University of [[Holberg]], Richard is a competent magician but also a skilled [[Architect|architect]], combining a talent for working with the flows of mana with hard-earned skill as a draughtsman and geometrist. Over the last twenty years or so he has designed or helped to design several structures intended to focus magical flows to produce mana. His health is not  good, however, and working on new projects tires him.
The offer he makes is reasonably straightforward; during the Autumn Equinox, the [[Imperial Conclave]] may name up to three territories. Over the next few months, with the aid of servants of the ''Father of Bats'', and under advisement from the [[Eternal|eternal]] himself, he [[Will|will]] create plans for structures to harness the flows of [[Magic|magic]] in those three territories - one structure per territory - and deliver them at the Winter Solstice. Each will represent a [[Sinecure|sinecure]] that may then be built by anyone empowered to do so (by a [[Senator]] or Imperial Wayleave, by the announcement of the [[Crystal Architect of the Spires]]  (if one is in an [[Urizen]] territory), or - perhaps ideally - by the [[Arcane Architect]] ). In the past, Richard has demonstrated a facility with design that saw him create a living [[Weirwood|weirwood]] tower that drew mana from an [[Enchanted|enchanted]] pool, a cunningly detailed [[Rune|rune]]-bound [[Spire|spire]] of [[Mithril|mithril]] that provided significantly more mana than expected, and a [[Mithril|mithril]] dome over a [[White granite|white granite]] structure in [[Segura]] that provided a small amount of prismatic ink each season rather than crystal mana.
The only restriction he wishes to place is that these structures be appointed by the Imperial [[Conclave]] through the [[Declaration]] of [[Candidacy]].
## Resolution
The blessing of the Hylje continues to flow through [[Sermersuaq]].
The [[Imperial Conclave]] accepted the offer of Richard of [[Holberg]], and requested that he prepare plans for mana structures in [[Morrow]], [[Mournwold]], and [[Tassato]].