---
IgnoreLinking: false
Tags:
- Recent-History
- 385YE-Autumn
- Winds-of-Fortune
Title: Ten travellers tales
aliases:
- Ten_travellers_tales
draft: false
revision_date: 2023-09-18 14:42:00+00:00
revision_id: 105728
---

Bathsheba was enjoying a quiet midday nap in the shade of her office, vigilant to the effects of the unexpectedly harsh autumn sun beating down on the shores of the [[Necropolis]], when she was awoken from uneasy dreams of [[Grendel]] invaders pUlling up to the docks of Crown's Quay by her assistant Abimelech.
"Harbourmaster! We've an arrival at the berth of Avigliana. She's... asking to present her papers." His face falls. "There's rather a number of papers and she's insisting they all receive the proper stamps and seals. We wouldn't normally bother with all of them - but she says she's a guest of the [[Ambassador]] - she's being quite insistent that everything be done in accordance with the proper procedure. And then we asked her if she had anything to declare..."
Bathsheba stood up, instantly roused and ready to do her duty as harbourmaster of historic Crown's Quay, and looked outside. Down by Berth Avigliana she saw a woman dressed in the distinctive robes of the Axou standing on the dockside, directing a bevy of servants in unloading several crates of luggage and what looked like an entire ornate bookshelf from the heaving merchant vessel from which they had disembarked. In her own hands she held an object wrapped carefully in fine embroidered cloth, as another servant held a parasol above her head, protecting her from the autumn sun.
"And did she?" She turned to Abimelech. "Have anything to declare?" His face paled. "Yes, Harbourmaster." He passed her a pile of customs forms. She took the stack and scanned the top one with a single seasoned eye - which quickly widened. "She... says she has what?" She looked down again at the woman, who was gesturing to the servants enthusiastically with the object in her hand as they carefully lowered yet another crate. "Well, is it for personal use? Or trade?"
"She says that's for the Ambassador to decide, Harbourmaster..." Abimelech, a keen youth of nineteen years with a habit for fretting, shifted from foot to foot. "I could put it down as diplomatic luggage...?"
"Yes. Yes, that's best. I'm not sure I know what the tariff is offhand on one of those imported for sale, anyway, especially under the Liberty Pact's precepts. Tell her we don't need to see half of these papers, not with free trade in effect, send her on her way to Fishguard, and get a message sent down the road to Cargo. We'll want to make sure their Excellency is notified, I suppose. And our opposite number. It's that new chap, the Navarri."
Abimelech nodded. "It'll be done, Harbourmaster."
"And Abimelech, for virtue's sake, grab a pair of stevedores and help them unload. I don't want all that filling the berth for the better part of an afternoon."
Waving her subordinate away, Bathsheba sat down at her desk, her siesta abandoned for now. She sucked air through her teeth. "Well well well. I think that's... [[Vigilance]]? The fourth of seven..." She shook her head, and thought of [[Reikos]]. "It's good to have it back home. Now, if only it could stay..."
## Overview
[[Anvil]] is the heart of [[The Empire]], and four times a year that heart begins to beat with a noise like thunder. The powerful and the ambitious, the wealthy and the hopeful, the wise and the curious, all gather in one place to shape the future. It's no surprise that this gathering also attracts folk from every nation, and from across the Known World, eager to influence, trade, and learn. The roads thicken with people eager to play their own part in the great Events of the day - or just to sell drugs to the jaded pleasure seekers. Nobody is turned away.
This wind of fortune gathers together information about groups pLanning to Visit Anvil during the Autumn Equinox, and wherever possible details when they plan to arrive, their business, and where they intend to start. It's by no means exhaustive! There are plenty of other visitors whose coming is not announced in advance. The times they intend to arrive are often aspirational; weather and misfortune might mean they arrive later than intended. Wherever possible they will try to let people know if they are delayed, and such information is often passed to the [[Egregores]] of nations intimated involved in their arrival.
## Too Lotus, Too Furious
* Axou traders sell their Wares outside the Forge as usual from 4:30pm on Saturday
* They will also take pre-orders of bulk deliveries for the Winter solstice
''Evander Slak'' (no, the other one) and ''Hippolata of Kaban'' are once again on the Trods to Anvil. This time they are also accompanied by a dour figure who they happily introduce to fellow travellers as ''Leto Silenia of Kaban'', a priest of the Axou faith who they are working with to provide a "unique business Opportunity" to their Imperial friends.
They assure regular customers that they are carrying (almost) all their usual concoctions - rare narcotics from the Tunnels of Kaban in [[Axos]] - with the exception of ''Blue Lotus'', which they emphasise they do not intend to bring to the Empire again anytime soon. They are also keen to talk with the [[Ambassador to Axos]], Fintan Nighthaven, on matters of business which were discussed during the summer solstice.
The trio plan to set up shop outside the Forge at 4:30pm on Saturday and sell for an hour, before retiring to [[The League]] Theatre where the Harlequin has invited them to a play premiere. They enCourage past customers and business partners to join them for the performance, and if they still have wares to sell they plan to continue business after the play finishes.
## Three Septs
* Representatives of the Ethengraw, the Illarawm, and the Yerende are coming to Anvil to pledge their sept to the nation
* They are planning to arrive a little before 8pm on the Saturday of the coming summit
OOC NoteNow that the Imperial Orc nation has completed all three of the follies required to convince the three septs of [[Ossium]] to join the nation, they will become a playable option for all Imperial Orc characters from 2024 onwards. We will update the wiki over winter with the full briefing details required to play a member of one of these septs as well as with information on their past and the knowledge and Skills they bring.
We can't do it for this event because it is a huge endeavour that will take weeks to write, but it will get done this winter in time for players to choose to create a character in the sept or join the sept from next year onwards. This event is a chance to meet NPC members of all three septs and to celebrate the triumph with them.
Two years ago, three small but proud septs arrived in [[Skarsind]]. The Ethengraw, the Illarawm, and the Yerende had left Ossium after the defeat of the [[Druj]], and hoping to find a new home in a land they might finally call their own, they travelled across the Empire to Skarsind. They were given land and settled there, but they chose to keep themselves apart from the Imperial Orc nation - living as foreigners. Having spent years under the subjugation of the Druj, they were cautious about pledging themselves to another nation so soon.
However they did not close [[The Door]] to the idea of joining the [[Imperial Orcs]] and the Empire. Rather they asked for a show of friendship, a sign that they would be respected and treated as equals if they joined. If the Imperial Orcs would build the Ethengraw an armoury with which to arm themselves, then they would be more than willing to join the armies of the nation and [[Fight]]. If the Illarawm needed a temple where they might store the bones of their forebears in return for sharing their knowledge of the ancestors with others. And the Yerende offered to share their knowledge of the Herbal arts - which nEarly rival those of the Druj - in return for possession of a flower garden where they might cultivate rare blooms.
These were huge things they asked for... and the septs knew it. But somehow, against all the odds, the Imperial Orcs have built the Ethengraw Armoury, the Illarawm Ossuary and the Yerende Gardens. Now there is no more impediment to them joining the Imperial Orcs. Ever mindful of symbolism, the Ethengraw have encouraged representatives of all three septs to travel together to Anvil. They plan to do a formal pledge to the nation before the gathered leaders of the Imperial Orcs - and perhaps to celebrate this momentous occasion. In the days that follow the [[Imperial Orc Egregore]] will then be able to bring as many members of the three septs as possible into the nation.
The leader of the Ethengraw has sent word ahead on behalf of the three septs. They look forward to meeting with their cousins in the Sunstorm Sept and the Sannite Sept - and standing with them as equals at long last. Now they are prepared to join their strength to the nation so that all might go forward together.
## Theodosia of Ipotavo
* A visiting Axou scholar is visiting the Empire
* She appears to have the unique shield ''Bawn-watch'' in her possession
WingedMessenger|address=Theodosia of Ipotavo has suggested she is open to receive Winged Messengers from Imperial scholars during her sabbatical in The Empire. She is staying at ''Myfanwy's Rest, Fishguard, Necropolis'' for the next year.
Evander, Hippolata, and their religious companion are not the only visitors from Axos due to arrive at Anvil this season. A scholar by the name of ''Theodosia'' arrived at Crown's Quay a few weeks before the Autumn equinox with a surprising amount of luggage, reams of paperwork, and several servants. She is apparently a relative of Grand Illarch Adonai of the Gates of Ipotavo. On her way to Anvil, she claims to be the owner of the the artefact shield ''Bawn-watch'' - the Shield of Vigilance. Theodosia has expressed her intention to visit Anvil for the first time at six in the evening on Saturday, in part to discuss the shield with the Ambassador to Axos. There's no talk of wanting to speak to the [[Champion of Vigilance]], but the shield appears to be her legal possession so simply taking it away from her is unlikely to be an option. 
The scholar has expressed her intention to remain in The Empire for the next year or so (thus the luggage and servants). With the Assistance of her countrywoman Mistress Isephenia she plans to visit several place of higher learning to consult their libraries, take in a few classes, and meet her Imperial peers. She has taken a lease on a small house on the outskirts of Myfanwy's Rest, and is apparently open to missives from Imperial scholars.
## Bittersweet Business
* Traders from Brewton visiting at 16:30 on Saturday
* They plan to sell their Bittersweet Brew - a drink with enjoyable properties
A group of traders from [[The Marches]] - from the village of Brewton - have been making their way east to [[Casinea]] and Anvil. They've visited once or twice before, but if the grumbling they're doing at inns and Wayhouses on [[The Way]] to Anvil are anything to go by, they're already finding the trek too tiresome. The merchants are expected to arrive at Anvil around 16:30 on Saturday, and are apparently planning to head to the Forge to sell their unique ''Bittersweet Brew'' to discerning Imperial customers.
It's probably not a coincidence they're arriving at the same time as the Kabani entrepreneurs. There's reports of harsh words exchanged between the two in the past, and it seems that the Brewton merchants are looking to "muscle in" on the Axou trade in relaxants. They're also apparently interested in meeting anyone who might be interested in acquiring the rights to sell Bittersweet Brew at Anvil so they don't have to keep making the journey across The Empire. They'd ''prefer'' a Marcher but they're prepared to accept proposals from anyone interested in a partnership.
## Obsidian Escapades
* [[The Captain]] of the Company of the Venturesome Harrier is visiting Anvil at two in the afternoon on Saturday
* They are accompanied by a playwright looking to speak with dramaturgical companies about a possible collaboration
The Company of the Venturesome Harrier, a group of intrepid explorers, have returned from an audacious expedition to Screed in the newly minted League territory of [[Spiral]]. They claim to have ascended the south face of the [[Black Plateau]] in company with a small group of paying customers. Their captain, ''Alexandre Albanel di [[Tassato]]'', intends to visit Anvil during the Autumn Equinox to share the story of the expedition. Cynical people suspect that he is also looking to secure more investment from League citizens, to help fund future expeditions to a place described on several of the Company of Venturesome Harrier's posters as "''the most terrible place in the Empire, a black heart that beats with madness and terror''." Alexandre is travelling with the Tassatan playwright ''Mirabil Sortilega di Tassato''; an artist of minor renown whose recent offerings have failed to garner the critical attention showered on their inaugural work ''Aldones and the Cherry Orchards''. Mirabel is apparently seeking a dramaturgical company to serve as technical consultants on a play inSpired by their visit to the "heart of darkness". 
The pair are expected to arrive around two o'clock in the afternoon on Saturday, and will be making their way to the League camp. Alexandre is likely to be in the market for a space where they can deliver a lecture on their visit to the Black Plateau, and keen to speak with both potential investors and the newspapers.
## Two Stars
* A pair of [[Thule]] warlocks are visiting Anvil on behalf of some of the Dragons
* They would like the [[Ambassador to Otkodov]] to arrange an introduction to some of the [[Navarr]]
* They are expected around five in the evening on Saturday
The Five Fang Consortium are not official representatives of the Dragons, but they are not the only Thule planning to attend Anvil this season. ''Emil Speaker-for-the-Quiet-Voiced'' and ''Skúli Watcher-of-the-Poisoned-Thicket'' are clearly folk of some prestige, traveling from [[Otkodov]] to Anvil in a covered ox wagon and accompanied by a group of stony-faced orc warriors in cowled blue cloaks. Warlocks both, they are apparently here on the personal business of two of the Dragons, rather than the Five-Who-Are-One. Unlike previous delegations, they have expressed no interest in speaking to the people of [[Varushka]], [[Wintermark]], or the Imperial Orcs. They have requested that the Ambassador to Otkodov, Fania Vessely-Vanek, provide them with an introduction to "''scholars of the Navarr, schooled in the matter of The [[The Vallorn]]''."
They're expected to arrive at Anvil around five in the evening on Saturday, and if possible would like to meet the Ambassador at the gates to Outer Anvil.
## At the Tree of Names
* A [[Jotun]] godhi has sent advance notice of their intention to make a peaceful journey to Anvil for the autumn equinox
* Osgar Hildsson wishes to speak with Wintermark Mystics, as well as Lord Killian Mortere and ßten of Ashenhall, on the topic of ancestors
* He is expected to arrive around 20:00 on the Saturday of the Autumn Equinox
* He will arrive at the Tree of Names in the Wintermark camp at around 8pm on Saturday
It seems to be a season for Jotun godhi to visit the Empire. An orc named ''Osgar Hildsson'' emerged from [[Skallahn]] shortly after the Summer Solstice under a flag of truce. He has been Challenged several times, but maintains that he is on his way to Anvil specifically to speak with the gathered mystics, with ßten of Ashenhall and with Lord Killian Mortere. He is clearly travelling alone, and repeatedly swears he has no intention of provoking a fight or indeed discussing anything to do with [[War]] and battle. Rather, he wishes to speak with Wintermark mystics, about matters of ancestors, mysticism and ancient shared culture. He suggests any interested in being part of this conversation meet him at the Tree of Names in Wintermark camp at eight in the evening on the Saturday of the Autumn Equinox.
## A New Electorate
* Some new orc citizens of Tassato are making their way to Anvil to evaluate the various Senatorial candidates
* They will be in Anvil from mid-day on Saturday
A lot of human Leaguers moved to Spiral, to become citizens of Apulian. The direction of travel, however, is by no means one-way. Following the Summer Solstice, some of the new orc citizens of the League left Spiral, heading for the other cities. Most have settled in [[Sarvos]] and Tassato - preferring not to stray too far from the [[Bay of Catazar]] - but an adventurous few have also moved to [[Temeschwar]] and [[Holberg]]. Just as with the humans, many of these orcs have established businesses in their new homes. A handful of Tassatan orc business owners have announced their intention to make their way to Anvil for the Autumn Equinox, to observe the election of the [[Senator]] for their city. They want to observe the process and learn more about the senator who now presumably represents them. They are obviously keen to talk to Cesare Sanguineo Rezia Di Tassato and are interested in hearing what he, and any other candidates for the senatorship, think about the political matters they care about. They don't currently have any votes, but they do have access to an amount of wealth that might be made available to support a candidate they think is in tune with their Ambitions. ''Dughlass di Regario'', ''Teassag van Mestra'', and ''Iain van Tassato'' expect to visit the League camp at noon on Saturday and remain until after the election of the senator is complete.
## For The Greater Good
* A [[Commonwealth]] magician and philosopher wishes to meet Imperial scholars and moral philosophers to discuss principles of the Greater Good
The Empire's relations with The the Commonwealth remain strong. Despite the spectre of war with the [[Principalities of Jarm]], Commonwealth citizens regularly visit the Empire, many of them to study [[Magic]] at the Lyceum Schloss. In the weeks before the Autumn Equinox, the Commonwealth [[Embassy]] in Siroc informs the Civil Service that one ''Doktor Meier'', a teacher from the University of Maarbeck, has expressed their desire to travel to Anvil as a part of their expedition to the Empire. 
Doktor Meier is a member in good standing of the Order of the Closed Hand, a group of Commonwealth magicians who believe that it is possible to mathematically calculate the Greater Good. The [[Enchantment]] of the Day [[Realm]] currently laid over the Empire has apparently inspired a desire to meet with a wide array of Imperial scholars and moral philosophers. They intend to make their way to the Hub at around half past ten in the morning on Saturday, and hope to go from there to a place where they and any interested citizens can get food and drink and debate how to do achieve the greatest possible good for the greatest possible number. 
The Civil Servant who received this message reports that the staff at the Commonwealth Embassy broke out into a long political and philosophical argument when the Order were mentioned, most of it conducted in technical Gemeinsamesprache too fast and dense to easily understand. It seems that whatever the Order believes, it is a matter of some controversy in the Commonwealth.
## Last of the Faithful
* Visitors from Asavea have arrived from Sarcophan aboard a Sarcophan ship
* They assert they have forsaken their Asavean titles and possessions and have travelled the the Empire to enact late mentor's final will
* Barring problems on the road, they will arrive in Anvil at 6pm on Saturday
The Empire has declared war upon the [[Asavean Archipelago]] and has withdrawn all the protections afforded foreigners from Nemoria and those satrapies that owe it allegiance. As such, little news has arrived across the sea for several months. While Asavean mariners are commonplace among the crews of many Sarcophan and Jarmish ships - they are largely content not to disembark from their vessels - so it is something of a surprise when a number of a number of passengers clad in the manner of wealthy Asaveans do make landfall from a dour freighter bearing the flag of the Delves. Coming ashore aboard a tottering launch from the anchored ship, a respectable distance away from the funerary jetties in Sanctuary, the figures are quickly intercepted as they struggle onto dry land through the lapping, autumnal surf. The launch and the anchored ship it quickly returns to waste no time turning its sails to depart, leaving the shivering visitors to explain to their interrogators that they are not, despite their appearances, Asaveans. They have rejected their heritage and fealty to Nemoria and have arrived at the request of Eli of the Cenotaph - and they bear a signed letter inked in [[Iridescent gloaming]] that appears to prove it. Furthermore they assert that they are ''pilgrims'' - and have crossed the sea from Sarcophan as followers of the Way on behalf of their former teacher, ''PortIlium Traposdo'' the High Priest of Noble Virtue.
With their cooperation, an Inquisitor is able to satisfy those on the beach that these figures ''do'' bear personal Auras - Anointings - known to the [[Imperial Synod]]. With a small escort of Highborn wayfarers, the group are permitted to carry on towards Anvil, to deliver the news from Asavea that they profess to carry for "Eli and the people of Ashborn".