---
revision_id: 106645
revision_date: 2023-12-29T18:02:56Z
Tags:
- Recent-History
- Winds-of-Fortune
- 382YE-Autumn
draft: false
Title: Tested again and again
aliases:
- Tested_again_and_again
---
Rodric's hand slid over the paper inking his signature onto the page. With practised ease he blew over it, drying the ink. Once it was ready he rolled into a scroll, and then removed his signet ring and placed it on the desk. He pulled the candle near and began to heat the stick of sealing wax.
"You and your fancy letters. It doesn't make anyone read them any harder you know? A pig is still a pig, even if you wash the shit off."
The troubadour smiled at the dour expression across the table. There's was an unusual partnership; a Dawnish troubadour and his yeoman companion might be common enough, but not when the yeoman was a friar from the Marches. United by virtue... and not a lot else as he often explained. And yet they'd stayed together all these years, travelling the Empire, and preaching on the virtues of Wisdom.
"Viviane de Coeurdefer is a refined lady of Dawn and a very important troubadour. She's the Cardinal of Ambition - and ''very'' well connected. These things are expected! I can write letters in support of her excellent suggestion but if they look like a butchers bill marked up with charcoal then she might take offence!". He never took his eyes off his colleague but his practised hands expertly turned the stick in the flame of the candle as he chattered amiably. There were two more letters to write tonight and he didn't want to lose a moment.
"What are you worried about? Is she going to [[Ruin|ruin]] your promising career as an itinerant minstrel with a scandalous taste in men? I reckon it's a season too late to worry if your harvest will come up Rod. Your rain has already fallen."
"There is a time for fortissimo.... and a time for pianissimo. But we cannot [[Change|change]] this world of ours by shouting. Our words must land lightly on the ear, that we may seduce the unguarded to our cause. So Lady Coeurdefer will need those of us who support her noble goals to play our parts maestoso."
"Finish your bloody letters and come to bed. You can play something mestosy afterwards."
Roderic smiled as his old friend headed for the stairs that led to their private room. He longed to go with him, but his hands reached for another sheet of parchment and he picked up his quill. One more letter he told himself and then bed.
## Overview
Since he was charged with presenting [[All work together|a sermon on the future of the Way]] during the Winter Solstice last year, the encyclical message of Severin von Holberg has continued to prompt discussion about the role of the [[Imperial Synod]] in the Empire. There has been discussion of the [[Benevolence, inspiration, and legacy#An End to Ultimatums|value of the national assemblies]], the [[Benevolence, inspiration, and legacy#Paragons and Exemplars|role of the paragons and exemplars]], the [[More work#Cardinal Truth|purpose of the virtue assemblies]], and the [[More work#Guardians of the Faithful|value of revocation]]. The spirit of debate and religious unity his message has produced has also generated caution when engaging with [[Statement of Principle|statements]] that might cause conflict within the faith or with other religions. Debate around these topics is ongoing - but in almost every case no resolution has been reached one way or another.
Part of the ''Von Holberg Address'' touched on ways that the virtuous pilgrim should live their life. It talked about how the faithful should let their actions be guided by "[[Benevolence, inspiration, and legacy|benevolence, inspiration, and legacy]]". How do our actions "benefit the Empire in whole or in part" while still adhering to the virtues? How can "absolute inner commitment become the spur of belief that drives others to action"? How can one harness "the drive to create something lasting and of consequence"?
Within the Empire, the faithful are guided and represented by the [[Imperial Synod]], so it falls to them to consider ways to encourage [[Benevolence, inspiration, and legacy|benevolence, inspiration, and legacy]]. To secure the greatest benefit to the Empire, while still guided by the virtues; to encourage virtuous action; to create lasting, consequential but above all virtuous [[Change|change]]. 
The [[Imperial Constitution|Constitution]] is reasonably clear about the expectations of the Synod, as the representatives of the faithful and the guardians of the spirit of the Empire. It states that the "Synod shall ensure the virtuous behaviour of the Empire" and "ensure the behaviour of individual citizens does not debase the Empire."
With all that in mind, and with the nights growing longer as Autumn approaches, theological discussion has shifted again. This time, scholars, priests, and people with loud opinions seem to be talking about the role of the Synod within the Empire - specifically its relationship to the other centres of political power. The [[Imperial Senate|Senate]], the [[Imperial Bourse|Bourse]], the [[Imperial Military Council|Military Council]], and the [[Imperial Conclave|Conclave]]. 
## Aiding the Military Council
 Synod stands in support and in guidance. National assemblies call their fellows to stand at Right of Witness to military council to guard and to guide; to strengthen and to build. A named priest who watches can be contacted and can communicate more easily.
The Synod has never been shy about attempting to guide the [[General|generals]] and the [[Imperial Military Council|military council]] to act with Virtue. It is difficult to argue that there have been military matters that arose from, or caused, significant religious discussion - the [[Schisms and Heresies#The Yaelian Schism|Yaelian schism]] threatened to split the Military Council apart, while the arguments about the [[Praise and blame|virtue of cruelty]] - or [[The mother of morality|lack thereof]] - have continued for more than a year and have left some armies unwilling to [[Fight|fight]] alongside others over matters of [[Courage|deeply held principle]]. 
### Witnesses
* The Assembly of the Nine encourages priests to attend meetings of the Military Council as witnesses.
There have been [[Create title of Chaplain Military|previous unsuccessful attempts]] to encourage the Senate to increase Synod presence in the Military Council, to offer guidance on matters of virtue. Now the Synod has taken matters into its own hands, with this mandate from Viviane de Coeurdefer, and supporting [[Statement of Principle|statements]] from the Navarr and the people of Dawn.
We the Navarr national assembly encourage guides to attend the military council to ensure clear lines of communication between the guides of the Navarr and their generals. We nominate Neala to act a liaison in this endeavour.
The [[Member of the Synod#Witness|Right of Witness]] grants any member of the Synod the right to attend any meeting of the military council, whether a formal gathering of generals or the [[Muster]] that determines the use of the [[Sentinel Gate]]. Witnesses have no ability to interfere of course - and no ability to speak without [[Imperial Military Council#Participation|an explicit invitation from the Council]]. Yet their silence does not preclude them from judging everything they see and hear, nor from acting on it once they leave the meeting. As long as they are respectful, their right to attend these meetings is guaranteed by the [[Imperial Constitution]]. The simplest response to the [[Assembly#The Assembly of the Nine|Assembly of the Nine's]] call to action would be for priests to attend the military council and see for themselves what goes on there. With statements of principle such as those outlined by Viviane de Coeurdefer, named priests could take it on themselves to attend the meetings on behalf of their nations and work with others interested in Military Council affairs.
The Dawnish assembly sends Odelina de Rondell to bear Right of Witness in Military Council, to act as confessor to the Dawnish generals until end of Autumn 383YE.
### Chaplains
* Tarrat of the Legion's Rookery has put forward a proposal for a formal Imperial title to support and guide each nation's generals
An alternative suggestion has been put forward by ''Tarrat'', a teacher at the [[Skarsind#Legion.27s Rookery|Legion's Rookery]] in [[Skarsind]]. A venerable [[Orc]] [[Preachers|preacher]] with decades of military experience behind him, he has written extensively about his time both leading and advising the leaders of legions who have fought in many of the Empire's battles over the last thirty years. The [[Create title of Chaplain Military|recent attempt]] to appoint a priest to serve as a Synod liaison to the Military Council failed - but the Assembly of Nine is calling for Synod members to stand "''in support and in guidance''" of the ''generals'' of their nations, ''not'' to judge or interfere with the difficult work of the Council itself. Tarrat writes that the "Chaplain Military" represented an attempt by the Synod to interfere in the Council on a political level, rather than looking to aid and advise the people whose job it is to deal with the harsh realities of Imperial military leadership.
With that in mind, he has put together a proposal for the creation of the title of "''chaplain''" - a title used both within the Empire and without to refer to a priest whose focus is on offering spiritual support to soldiers and generals. He has distributed his suggestion widely and invited his peers among the Imperial priesthood to debate, discuss, and ultimately enact his proposal.
Tarrat's Proposal
Ten titles - Chaplain of (nation) - would be created, one for each Imperial nation. Each would be appointed annually by the appropriate National assembly.
The chaplains are responsible for supporting and guiding the generals of their nation. They are also responsible for helping them to spread awareness of Imperial Military Council decisions among their people, and addressing concerns about their virtue.
Once each summit. each chaplain may use a single additional judgement. This can be used to call one or all generals of their nation to Inquisition, announced in their national assembly without requiring a vote. It could be escalated to sanction as normal. Alternatively, they could use this additional judgement to revoke a general of their nation in any appropriate assembly they could normally raise a judgement in, or call for a writ of excommunication in the general assembly. In these latter cases a normal vote would take place.
With a single [[Senate motion]], the Senate could create ten equal titles of ''chaplain'' - one for each nation. Each title would be [[Appointment|appointed]] by the appropriate [[Assembly#The National Assemblies|National assembly]], and would serve for a year. 
The chaplains would be responsible not only for supporting and guiding the generals of their nation, but also for helping them to spread awareness of Imperial Military Council decisions among their people, and addressing concerns about their virtue. After all, generals have many demands on their time and often struggle to keep everyone up to date on the complex strategies of the Council.
Rather than being a purely honorary title with heavy responsibility, the chaplain would be empowered to guide the generals of their nation as well. In a similar manner to the [[Imperial Chaplain Consular|Chaplain Consular]] who supports the [[Ambassador|ambassadors]], they would be empowered to call generals to account for their actions - so that everyone in the nation could be reassured that the leaders of their armies act with virtue. 
Tarrat suggests that each chaplain be empowered to make a singe additional judgement each season, but that they may use that judgement as they wish to enact one of several [[Judgement|judgements]]. The most straightforward use of this power would be to call one or all the generals of their nation to [[Inquisition]] (with the concomitant power to escalate to [[Sanction]]), without the requirement for [[Scrutiny]] by their National assembly. Alternatively, they could use this additional judgement to raise a [[Revocation]] or [[Writ of Excommunication]] against a general of their nation, although in this case the normal period of scrutiny would be required. With these three inter-related powers, they could help to ensure not only that the generals of their nation serve with virtue, but also reassure their own people that this was the case.
Tarrat of the Rookery further suggests that to support the generals, the Chaplains be given the power to withdraw up to 5 Thrones apiece from the virtue fund specifically to reward a general who has gone above and beyond in their commitment to the virtues.
After some discussion has already taken place, Tarrat suggests that one power that would ''not'' be appropriate to the Chaplain would be the power to address the military council. The chaplains role is to support and guide the generals of their own nation, to advise them on matters of virtue and the traditions of their people - not to interfere in the business of the military council as a whole. The last thing the military council needs, argues the grizzled old orc, are ten more voices shouting in the military council. The right of witness is enough.
The [[Scrutiny#Constitutional Court|Constitutional Court]] has tentatively agreed that none of the powers laid down by Tarrat in his proposal appear unconstitutional, but as always they would need to see a specifically worded [[Senate motion]] before they made a formal judgement.
## Aiding the Conclave
Constitutionally, the [[Imperial Conclave]] is "''free from interference by the Synod''". This sometimes chafes of course; it is as important that the Conclave act with virtue as it is that the Senate or the Military Council do so. In theory, a constitutional [[Change|change]] could be used to grant the Synod powers over the Conclave, but to date no attempts to enact such a change have been successful. 
Yet the Synod is not without allies in the Conclave, at least in theory. The [[Sevenfold Path]] believes that "''Way of Virtue binds the Empire together and should inform all use of powers, including magic''", strives to "''build a bridge between the Conclave and the priests of the Synod''", and works to "'' ensure the powers of the Conclave are deployed in line with the Way of Virtue''". Indeed, the current [[Grandmaster]] of the [[Conclave order|order]] Zephaniah of Felix's Watch has said several times that he will look to the Synod for guidance on how best to use the order's [[Grandmaster#Funding the Order|resources]].
With that in mind, the Synod could encourage the Sevenfold Path to become more active in the politics of the Conclave, and invigorate their mission to remind the magicians of the Empire of the importance of the seven virtues represented on the order's sigil.
### Guides on the Path of Virtue
* Carabella di Sarvos has suggested that the powers of the Grandmaster of the Sevenfold Path be expanded to more effectively guide the Conclave in matters of virtue.
''Bishop Carabella di Sarvos'' has a long history of support for the Sevenfold Path. In her younger days, during the reign of [[Emperor Hugh]], she even briefly served as [[Grandmaster]]. She has dusted off an old proposal, and attempted to drum up some support for it. Like many such changes, it would require the support of the Imperial Senate - something that was not forthcoming under either Hugh or [[Emperor Walter|his successor]] but might be possible now with a more active and virtuous Senate. Her proposal suggests that the Senate offer additional support and validation to the remit and responsibilities of the order, and the Grandmaster that guides it. With a suitably worded [[Senate motion]], the [[Senator|senators]] could amend the powers of the Grandmaster, and recognise the role of the Sevenfold Path as guardians of virtue in the Conclave. 
 The Sevenfold Path has pledged to grant resources for virtuous magical works. We believe that priests should raise and consider judgements endorsing specific, detailed magical acts to guide the grandmaster in this process. Successful judgements should be brought to the grandmaster's attention for consideration.
Carabella's Proposal
Carabella di Sarvos suggests that the powers of the Grandmaster of the Sevenfold path be amended in three ways.
First that the Grandmaster may raise declarations of sorcery or interdiction without spending crystal mana as often as they see fit.
Second that the Grandmaster may personally speak first on any matter of sorcery or interdiction, as long as they spend mana to do so.
Thirdly that the Grandmaster be allowed to veto any Declaration of Concord when it is announced by the Civil Servant during a Conclave Session before it is presented, unless it were presented under the Veil of Night. This would require a constitutional motion.
Any or all of these amendments could be proposed as a single senate motion, but if the third power were included the entire motion would require a constitutional vote.
The Grandmaster could be given the power to raise [[Declaration|declarations]] or [[Sorcery]] and [[Interdiction]] as they see fit, without spending crystal mana, the better to help the Conclave in identifying and restricting unvirtuous magic or [[Religious crime|dangerous]] magicians.Allowing the grandmaster to raise these declarations freely would also position them as advisors or supporters to anyone interested in raising one of these declarations themselves.
The Grandmasters already have extensive power to [[Conclave session#Session Order|control the flow of debate]] during a [[Conclave session]]. Carabella goes on to suggest that the Senate amend the powers of the Grandmaster of the Sevenfold Path to strengthen their voice on matters of interdiction and sorcery. By allowing the grandmaster (and only the grandmaster) the opportunity to step outside the strict cycle of [[Principle of Precedence|precedence]] to speak first on ''any'' matter of interdiction or sorcery would allow them to put forward the virtuous view of the matter. The grandmaster would still be bound by the [[Principle of Proportions]] of course, and once they had finished speaking the normal cycle of precedence would begin.
Finally, she presents the most controversial amendment to the powers of the Grandmaster of the Sevenfold Path. One of the powers of the Conclave is to present declarations of [[Concord]] - to say that the house believes certain things. In some cases, she argues, the mere act of discussing a profoundly unvirtuous proposal demeans the entire Conclave and by extension all the magicians of the Empire. She proposes that the Sevenfold Path Grandmaster be given the power to ''veto'' any Declaration of Concord as soon as it is announced by the Civil Service, before it is presented or debated. If they use this power, the item is struck from the agenda. If appropriate (depending how it was raised), the magician who brought the declaration would be refunded their mana. The exception to this power would be any declaration raised under the [[Grandmaster#Veil of Night|veil of night]] - no Grandmaster should overrule another Grandmaster in this fashion. Granting the Grandmaster this power of veto would require a [[Senate motion#Constitutional Vote|constitutional vote]].
All of this represents a significant increase to the power of the Sevenfold Path, but Carabella also believes it would go some way towards reassuring those critical of the Conclave that attempts are being made to guide them back towards the path of virtue.
The Constitutional Court has reviewed these suggestions, and reiterated the statement made when they were first raised during the reign of Emperor Hugh. While they represent a significant change to the powers of the Grandmaster, they do not appear to be unconstitutional. They do not represent the Synod gaining influence over the Conclave; the Sevenfold Path is a Conclave order made up of magicians. They would be cautious about allowing any Imperial title other than Grandmaster to wield such powers - the role of the orders to guide the Conclave is constitutionally supported in their opinion - but the suggested changes are clearly within the remit of the Sevenfold Path's recognised manifesto. As always, they also caution that everything would depend on the wording of the Senate motion used to enact Carabella's suggestion.
In response to several questions, the Civil Service has confirmed that were the title of Grandmaster of the Sevenfold Path amended in this fashion, they could look into similar amendments to the other Grandmasters. Alternatively, a Senator could raise a [[Senate motion]] explicitly asking them to do so, and they would prepare a suitable report.
## Aiding the Bourse
Like the Conclave, the constitution places the [[Imperial Bourse]] outside the interference of the Synod - except in those rare cases where a member's behaviour is so egregious they merit [[Writ of Excommunication|excommunication]]. The materials the Bourse deals in - white granite, mithril, and weirwood in particular - are vital to the survival and [[Prosperity]] of the Empire. Yet all too often, virtuous projects fall by the wayside in favour of those sponsored by the biggest purse. Selfish projects can easily displace projects that might otherwise benevolently offer aid to the people of the Empire, inspire its people, or create an enduring virtuous legacy.
Suggestions have [[You'll recognise yourself#Detractors of la Volpe|already been made]] that the power of [[Commission]] be devolved to the [[Assembly#The Assembly of the Nine|Assembly of the Nine]]. With the Synod in charge of commissioning new structures, the perceived price-gouging by the Bourse could be addressed directly. That option still remains open, but the Senate has shown little interest in it. However a new proposal been made, tangentially related to the Bourse, which may merit wider discussion.
Vitruvia's Proposal
The Senate may either amend an existing [[Bearer of an Imperial Wayleave]] title to assign it to the [[Imperial Synod]], or create a new one.
The title would be chosen by a judgement of [[Appointment]] each season, raised in one or more of the Assemblies as determined when the title is created. In case of competing judgements, the one with the greatest margin would be successful and all others would fail (in the same manner as is commonly used with [[Mandate|mandates]]).
Scrutiny on the judgement of appointment for this specific title would end at an agreed on time to ensure the title-holder had sufficient opportunity to announce their project in the Senate before the end of the summit.
### Virtuous Wayleave
The [[Urizen]] [[Urizen economic interests#Architects|architect]] Vitruvia of [[Redoubt#Tomari|Tabulos]] has been quite intrigued to hear of the [[Reallocate an Imperial Wayleave to the Imperial Orcs|plans to assign]] one of the new [[Bearer of an Imperial Wayleave|Imperial Wayleaves]] to the [[Imperial Orcs]]. She can see that these Wayleaves are cleary intended to raise money for the [[Imperial treasury]], but very much approves of the way they empower Imperial citizens to leave a lasting legacy on the world. It is a shame, however, that their method of allocation is so "mercenary" rather than being guided by principles of Virtue.
With that in mind, she proposes that the Senate might either assign one of the remaining two Wayleaves to the custody of the Synod, or create a new Wayleave specifically for use by the Assemblies to allow them to support truly virtuous projects. The Wayleave would be assigned by a [[Judgement]] of [[Appointment]] - it is after all an [[Imperial Title]] albeit one that is held only for a single season. To ensure that the bearer has the chance to use their ''Virtuous Wayleave'' she suggests that the judgement of appointment must be completed by a set time - either the end of scrutiny on Saturday or Sunday depending on what the Civil Service recommend. In this way it would be possible to weigh competing statements, and assign the title to the one that achieved the greatest margin of success.
As to appointment, she suggests that it might be raised in the [[Assembly#The Assembly of the Nine|Assembly of the Nine]] or the [[Assembly#The General Assembly|General Assembly]] - perhaps either or both. She further suggests that it would be appropriate for several of the [[Assembly#The Virtue Assemblies|Virtue assemblies]] to have a say in the matter - [[Pride]] and [[Ambition]] particularly. Indeed, she argues, it might even be appropriate to allow ''any'' assembly to raise the [[Judgement]] or appointment, given the simple method of assessing margin of success to determine who receives the title in case of competing judgements. On the other hand, as s dyed-in-the-wool dedicate of Ambition, it is perhaps unsurprising she favours a method of appointment that encourages competition in this fashion!
The Constitutional Court sees no particular problem with this proposal, but as always it would depend on the wording of the [[Senate motion]]. They include a reminder that, as with the existing Imperial Wayleaves, any Wayleave granted to the Synod would represent a guaranteed ability to raise a [[Commission]] and thus automatically count as one of the twelve commissions each season the Empire is capable of supporting, regardless of whether it is used.
## Aiding the Senate
A way that the [[Cardinal|Cardinals]] of the Synod could help guide the [[Imperial Senate]] has [[More work#The Mandate of Teleri|already been outlined]]. One area of Senate responsibility that has made several priests increasingly concerned, however, is that of Imperial diplomacy. There have been recent high-profile developments around relations with [[Axos]], the [[Principalities of Jarm]], and the [[Sumaah Republic]]; the use of Imperial mercenaries to [[Toil and weep#Ending the Uprising|suppress]] an uprising in [[Asavean Archipelago|Asavea]]; the actions of Imperial citizens around the [[Iron Confederacy]] [[Heroes|slave rebellion]], all of which have involved heated debate in the Synod and regular calls for citizens to remember the importance of Virtuous action. 
### Virtuous Diplomacy
* The appointment of ambassadors could be overseen by the Imperial Synod.
Jereboam of Sanctuary, an enthusiastic young [[Highguard religious beliefs#Wayfarers|wayfarer]] from [[Necropolis#Sanctuary Sand|Sanctuary]] has more experience than most dealing with representatives of foreign nations. He has put forward what he considers a straightforward proposal to ensure that the Imperial representatives to other nations do not demean themselves or their Empire. Simply put, the Senate should devolve the appointment of the [[Ambassador|ambassadors]] to the Imperial Synod. 
In his many recent letters to interested priests across the Empire, he has made much of what he described as the recent successes of Accalon of Felix's Watch in dealing with the delicate Sumaah situation, as well as the many [[Statement of Principle|statements]] and [[Mandate|mandates]] from various [[Assembly|assemblies]] of the Synod that have led to clearly virtuous behaviour with regard to foreign nations. Further, he has expounded on the sheer amount of time the Senate must spend on appointing, moderating, and re-appointing the [[Ambassador#Current Ambassadors|ten ambassadorial titles]] the Empire currently possesses.
The Senate could simply make the [[Assembly#The General Assembly|General Assembly]] responsible for appointing the ambassadors going forward, using [[Judgement|judgements]] of [[Appointment]]. With the ambassadors and the [[Imperial Consul]] appointed by the Synod - who already are responsible for revoking them - the valuable time of the [[Senator|senators]] would be freed up to concentrate on matters of domestic policy, while the Empire could be confident that the ambassadors were guided by virtue in their interactions with other nations.
The Constitutional Court, invited by Jereboam to examine his suggestions, have confirmed that this would not be unconstitutional. However, as it represents a significant shift in power from the Senate to the Synod, this would require a [[Senate motion#Constitutional Vote|constitutional motion]] to enact.
### The Chaplain Consular
* The powers of the Chaplain Consular could be expanded
As an avid writer of letters, Jereboam of Sanctuary has also been in correspondence with ''Tarrat of the Legion's Rookery''. Enthused by the old orc's suggestions about military chaplains, Jereboam has adopted parts of that proposal with regard to the ambassadors. Even if the Senate were not interested in devolving the appointment of ambassadors to the Synod, they could strengthen the power of the [[Imperial Chaplain Consular]] to assist them - and to ensure that their actions did not demean anyone.
The proposal is that the [[Imperial Chaplain Consular#Inquisit Imperial Ambassador|power to make an additional judgement]] the Consul already possesses be expanded so that they may choose to use that judgement to raise a [[Revocation]] or [[Writ of Excommunication]] against an Imperial ambassador rather than simply an inquisition. Such a judgement would follow all the usual rules - it would have to be raised in an appropriate assembly available to the citizen holding the title, and the normal scrutiny and judgement by that assembly would take place.
### Senate Accountability
* The powers of the Auditor of Senatorial Accountability could be expanded.
Finally, and perhaps unsurprisingly, all this talk of guiding the Senate has led to further scrutiny of the [[Auditor of Senatorial Accountability]]. Once Tarrat and Jereboam begin to make their respective proposal, it takes little time for multiple theological scholars and political theorists across the Empire to suggest that the special [[Auditor of Senatorial Accountability#Inquisit Member of the Senate|power to inquisit the Senate]] of the Auditor might be amended to include the option to revoke or excommunicate a member of the Senate. Obviously such a judgement would need to be raised in the appropriate assembly, but it makes sense that the auditor have some additional ability to remove members who are unvirtuous or whose actions demean themselves and their nation.
### Going the Whole Hog
* The Chaplain Consular, Auditor, and Imperial Inquisitor could all have their powers expanded with a single motion
''Teodora Bezavina of Delev'' - the de facto leader of a group of so-called [[Benevolence, inspiration, and legacy#The Moderates|moderate reformers]] and something of a constitutional scholar suggests that were the Senate to wish to do so, they could amend both the powers of the Chaplain Consular and the Auditor of Senatorial Accountability with a single motion - they already possess powers that are to all intents and purposes the same in intent and extent, merely used in relation to members of different houses. She actually goes further, pointing out that the [[Imperial Inquisitor]] likewise possesses the power to raise an "automatic judgement of inquisition" and proposes that if the Senate wishes they could bring all three powers in to line with Tarrat's suggested "military chaplains" with a single motion of amendment.
## Missed Opportunities
The Synod judgement that authorised the ''Severin Sermon'' cautioned every Imperial citizen of the danger of religious division. It urged them to put aside these divisions and instead focus on what unites them. The prognostications performed by the civil service determined that the impact of the mandate would be such "that any attempt to incite people to confront religious differences or spiritual conflicts would be strongly inhibited for the following year" and so it has proved. There were a number of incidents over the season that might have become the basis for further conflict were it not for Severin's words. As with the [[Benevolence, inspiration, and legacy#Missed Opportunities|Spring]] and [[More work#Missed Opportunities|Summer]] this has meant that some statements of principle have not led to a clear effect.
### Idolatry
The Freeborn assembly does not believe it is virtuous to gain Prosperity at the cost of spreading idolatry throughout the Coast. We do not support the Iron Qanat's being constructed by anyone who will include idolatrous imagery in its construction.
On the surface, the statement opposite by the Freeborn Assembly appears straightforward. It denounces the decision to assign [[Judged by their company#Closer to Home : Almodin Okt.C3.ADstis|Almodin Oktístis]] to build the [[Free to live#Yellow Grain|Iron Qanat]] in [[Segura]]. Yet it went further - a Freeborn priest condemning "Prosperity at the cost of spreading idolatry throughout the Coast" cannot help but appear to be an attack on the [[Feroz#The Temple of Balo and the Black Bull|Temple]] that stands in [[Feroz#Oranseri|Oran]] and welcomes dozens of [[Asavean Archipelago|Asavean]] visitors to the Brass Coast each season.
The matter of Balo and the Black Bull is especially complex. In Spring 381YE, Franco i Erigo was empowered by the Freeborn Assembly to enact a mandate that
[[Distant deeps#Encouraging Tolerance|encouraged tolerance]] of the Asaveans and their [[Religious crime#Idolatry|idolatrous]] ways. "''Their faith does not concern the Freeborn so long as they follow our laws''" the assembly declared. Even without Severin's Sermon, that mandate meant that "there will be no further opportunities for the Synod to interfere with the operation of the Temple in Feroz unless there are significant changes in the relationship between the Plenum and the Imperial Senate, such as a Declaration of War against Asavea, or the abrogation of the temple at Oran."
Furthermore, Veikko Bondforger of [[Wintermark groups#Sigehold|Sigehold Hall]] has already raised and led an [[Inquisition]] of Almodin that so far has led to no particular [[Sanction]]. Denouncing the Asavean architect in this fashion, especially after what appears to be the validation of the General assembly, cannot help but cause religious division, something the Freeborn citizens of the Coast are barely interested in at this time. The refugees from the Isle of Zemress are the obvious exception, but their neighbours are not concerned about what the builder puts on the side of their dam, at least not at the moment.
The [[Imperial Senate]] could support the Freeborn assembly by raising a new motion to [[Commission]] the Iron Qanat, one that does not use the services of the Asavean Architect. This would implicitly mean that the former motion were [[Powers of the Imperial Senate#Abrogation|abrogated]], but given that work has not yet begun on the Qanat the only potential obstacle would be the hurt feelings of Almodin Oktístis. If they do not choose to do this, however, Almodin will still be responsible for overseeing the creation of the Qanat – and would still be free to cover it in whatever problematic imagery he desired as long as it otherwise met the specifications of the project.
### Blasphemy
We, the Prosperity assembly, invite all those who recognise the exemplar Zemress - including pilgrims from the Sumaah Republic and the Zemress islanders - to attend festivities in Zemress' honour in anvil on the second evening of the Autumn equinox in the League National Theatre.
The [[Prosperity]] [[Assembly#The Virtue Assemblies|Assembly]] is planning to have a festival in celebration of the famed [[Paragons and exemplars|exemplar]] [[Zemress]]. They have invited both the refugees from the Isle of Zemress - whose connection to the exemplar is familial - and representatives from the [[Sumaah Republic]] - who also recognise Zemress as an exemplar of Prosperity.
Both groups have declined to attend. It has nothing to do with Severin's words, but does represent a form of religious conflict. Neither group will come to Anvil for a celebration on the same weekend that the [[Religious crime#Blasphemy|blasphemous]] [[The Brass Coast religious beliefs#Feast of the Broken Wheel|Feast of the Broken Wheel]] is being celebrated in the same place. They do not rule out the possibility of attending a festival dedicated to the exemplar in the future, but they consider it deeply distasteful and perhaps even inappropriate to celebrate this inspirational figure in the same settlement where so much [[Religious crime]] is taking place.