---
IgnoreLinking: False
Tags: ['Recent-History', '380YE-Summer', 'Winds-of-Fortune']
Title: The twentieth empress
aliases: ['The_twentieth_empress']
draft: False
revision_date: 2020-01-06 19:07:26+00:00
revision_id: 78547
---

## Overview
There is a [[Throne]] again!
The [[Imperial Senate]] has appointed an Empress: Lisabetta Giacomi von [[Holberg]]. She is perhaps best known as the founder of the House of Seven Mirrors, a political salon and publishing house founded to promote advances in political thought, with a view to furthering [[The Empire|the Empire]]’s destiny. 
The eldest child of Elise Giacomi of [[Tassato]], and Gyorgy Yakovitch of [[Temeschwar]], the young Empress-to-be excelled at the study of [[Music|music]] and philosophy at the prestigious University of [[Tassato]]. After completing her studies, she was reluctantly drawn back into her [[Family|family]]’s long-established Temeschwari [[Business|business]], the Hearthfire [[Guild]] of Arms and Artisans, and six years ago set up a new branch in [[Holberg]] after succeeding her mother as Prince of that [[Guild]].
Her rise in the political sphere has been remarkable. Shortly after arriving at her first [[Anvil]] Summit in the [[Winter]] of 378YE, she was appointed [[Conscience of the Senate]] by the then [[Cardinal of the Way]] Beodun Snowlock. She served her year’s term with distinction and immediately afterwards took on the role of [[Proxy|proxy]] to the [[Warmage]], carrying out the full responsibility of that role during the storm-wracked Summit of Winter 379YE. She announced her [[Candidacy|candidacy]] for [[The Throne|the Throne]] shortly before the [[Summer]] Solstice of 379YE and it took nearly a year of hard work to achieved the support of [[The Senate|the Senate]]. 
Finally, during the [[Spring]] Equinox 380YE, Lisabetta von [[Holberg]] was elected as [[The twentieth empress|the twentieth Empress]].
## Significance
[[The Throne]] has several significant powers that they can wield in each of the houses of Imperial power. These powers are not unlimited, however. For example, while they are a member of the [[Senate]], with the power to raise an address, to exclude a [[Senator|senator]], ratify constitutional motions, or even to [[Veto|veto]] any [[Senate motion]] they wish, they cannot raise or second a motion as a [[Senator]] can, and can still be excluded from the Senate by the Speaker.
Regardless, [[The Throne]] has capabilities far beyond those enjoyed by any other [[Imperial Title]]. Among other things, they are part of the [[Assembly]] of Nine in the [[Imperial Synod]] for example; may invoke the Order of [[The Throne]] in the [[Imperial Conclave]], and serve as a member of the [[Imperial Military Council]]. This ability to participate in all areas of Imperial governance gives them a unique ability to provide direction and leadership in times of crisis.
In each case, [[The Throne]] must be present to use their powers. The Throne cannot [[Veto|veto]] a motion after it has passed if she is not present, any more than she can prevent the [[Imperial Synod]] wielding its own constitutional power to [[Veto|veto]] a motion that they have approved. They are forbidden to appoint a [[Proxy|proxy]]; rather, their powers can be wielded in their absence only through the use of an [[Imperial Favour|Imperial favour]] and there are significan limitations on how that favour can be created, and deployed.
### Addressing the Throne
Each Throne may choose their own forms of address. Traditionally, The Throne is addressed as "''their Imperial majesty''" but some Thrones have chosen a different honorific. [[Emperor James]] for example preferred to be addressed as "''your honour''" while [[Empress Richilde]] favoured the Dawnish "''m'lady Empress''". While few people in [[The Empire|the Empire]] put much store by other titles, most citizens take a very different approach with The Throne. The Throne is chosen by the Senate, who hold their titles on behalf of the people of [[The Empire|the Empire]]. As such it is suggested that The Throne stands as a symbolic representation of [[The Empire|the Empire]] itself - and a failure to accord them due respect ultimately shows that the citizen does not respect their own Empire. At the very least, this can be seen as an abject failure of [[Pride]]. 
By default, foreign dignitaries [[Will|will]] refer to The Throne by the traditional title unless instructed otherwise.
Also traditionally, a male Throne uses the title "Emperor" while a female Throne uses the title "Empress" but The Throne is free to choose either honorific or to avoid the formal title entirely if they wish.
### The Coronation
The Throne wields its full powers from the point where they are appointed. There is a formal coronation that is traditionally held during the Solstice or Equinox following their [[Appointment|appointment]]. The coronation of Lisabetta [[Will|will]] take place on Saturday during the upcoming Summer Solstice.
The coronation begins with a procession through the ten nations which begins at five o'clock in the afternoon at the [[Imperial Senate]]. It proceeds through each nation in turn (the exact itinerary is being worked on by the Civil Service, and those wishing to learn more should consult with them at the Hub).
After the procession, there are some formal celebration involving [[Music|music]] and dance, and then the Coronation proper takes place. The Throne has the Imperial Crown placed on their head by their chosen [[Cardinal]]. Another short period of celebration may occur at this time, The Throne's busy schedule allowing.
Following the Summer Solstice summit, and the formal coronation, there are traditionally parties across [[The Empire|the Empire]], accompanied by a celebratory address from The Throne. You can learn more about these celebrations here.
### Foreign Dignitaries
It is traditional for [[Foreign Nations|foreign nations]] with whom the Empire has good relations to send representatives to [[Anvil]] to recognise the new Throne. It is common for these dignitaries to bring gifts, presented to The Throne as a representative of the Empire. Such gifts are often made in the Senate, with [[The Empress|the Empress]] seated on the Throne. It is understood that this is a matter of protocol - foreign ambassadors do not discuss political matters with The Throne, preferring to deal instead with the Senate or the Imperial ambassadors. 
The governments of [[Asavea]], [[Jarm]], [[Commonwealth]], [[Faraden]], [[Axos]], and Sarcophan have all indicated that they intend to send gifts to the Empress in [[Recognition|recognition]] of her coronation. The [[Grendel]], [[Jotun]], and [[Thule]] orcs have all informed the civil service that they intend to do likewise. it is not clear how many of these delegations are due to turn up at the Summer Solstice, however.
These gifts are the property of the person who bears the title, to do with as they see fit. The expectation is that The Throne [[Will|will]] keep at least some for themselves, but [[Foreign Nations|foreign nations]] know that some [[Will|will]] represent bequests for The Throne to bestow as they see fit. In some cases, Thrones have passed the dispensation of such gifts over to others. For example, [[Empress Teleri]] gave all formal gifts over to [[The Synod|the Synod]] to determine suitably virtuous recipients while [[Emperor Giovanni]] had almost all gifts he received while on the throne auctioned through [[The Bourse|the Bourse]].
### Monarch of [[Dawn]]
Of particular interest to historians [[Will|will]] be whether [[Empress Lisabetta]] chooses to [[Challenge|challenge]] the people of [[Dawn]] for the title of monarch. As a citizen of [[The League|the League]], Lisabetta would not be permitted to [[Fight|fight]] in the resulting tourney and would need to rely on the support of Dawnish nobles to [[Fight|fight]] on her behalf. If she does, it would make her the first Throne since [[Empress Brannan]] to seek that honour.
### Other Celebrations
There is a [[War|war]] on, it is true... but the coronation of a Throne is a significant event in the [[History|history]] of the Empire. Even at the height of [[The Orc Rebellion|the Orc Rebellion]], the coronation of [[Emperor Ahraz]] was followed by a [[Night|night]] of revelry. Each new Throne places an indelible mark on the Empire, and their ascension never goes unmarked.
Individual nations have their own methods of honouring The Throne. Sometimes the celebrations are for the specific person who has taken the title, sometimes they are more about celebrating the ideals, institutions, and traditions that make the Empire what it is. Regardless, all citizens are encouraged to at least toast the name of the new Throne - to informally pledge their support to The Throne and the Empire itself.
"I've come about the civil service briefing Abraham - the one on the new Throne?"
"Yes, yes, I gave it to Karkovich days ago."
"Yes - about that. Karkovich has instructed me to let you know that he felt it neccesary to edit some of your comments."
"Felt it neccessary did he? I bet he did. Karkovich is a fine magistrate, but he shouldn't have asked for my bloody opinion if he didn't want it."
"He says we can't describe citizens who don't use the proper form of address as abject traitors. Apparently it's their legal right. He said you were entitled to an opinion but he felt it was unsuitable to compare them to [[Druj]] in a formal document."
"Right? Rights! What has that got to do with anything? Its the legal right of the [[Freeborn]] to dress in motley and caper through [[Anvil]] like a pack of dancing fools once a year. Virtue is the difference between what you can do and what you should do."
"Yes Abraham, but apparently Karkovitch felt it wasn't our place to be lecturing citizens on the importance of having [[Pride]] in their Empire and their Empress."
"Hmph. The problem with the citizens of today is that they've no respect for their elders - no respect for anything they didn't do themselves. In my [[Day|day]] we were taught to take [[Pride]] in our Empire. And what's more we understood that if you wanted people to treat you with any respect you had to start by according them the respect they were due. She's The Throne for Virtue's sake! How do we expect other nations to treat us with any respect if we don't respect ourselves? But you mark my words, if you don't make people use the traditional address there'll be a gross of citizens in [[Anvil]] who think that not showing her the appropriate respect makes them special in some way. Weasels! If her Imperial Majesty has any sense she'll excommunicate the lot of them."
"Er... quite. I'm just letting you know what Magistrate Karkovitch said Abraham. He... he also felt your comments strongly advising the Empress to adopt the formal title were inappropriate."
"Fine! Edit the bloody thing. I've said my piece. But don't come crying to me if tomorrow you find we've all abandoned four hundred years of tradition and started addressing her by some ruddy awful [[League]] title."