---
revision_id: 93671
revision_date: 2022-07-24T18:02:57Z
Tags:
- Recent-History
- Winds-of-Fortune
- 382YE-Autumn
draft: false
Title: This might be your battle
aliases:
- This_might_be_your_battle
---
Carissa came out onto the deck behind the house in search her husband's father. Gan was leaning against the back wall of the house, his arms folded, glaring out at the sea, brows thunderous, occasionally sipping his syrah. 
She waited to see if hed noticed her and when it was clear he hadn't, she touched him on the arm gently to attract his attention. He started slightly, then smiled when he saw it was her.
"Are you alright?" she signed carefully. 
Gan nodded. "Too many people, all talking at once, all shouting. I thought I would come outside until they all calmed down."
He glanced at the sea, in that way he did whenever it was in sight, as if to check it was not creeping up on him. When she had first met him, it had struck her as odd. She'd known Gan was from the west, and she knew his people feared the sea, but she'd never thought about how difficult it must have been for him to come here, to Cazar. Haime - her husband, his son - said there was a family legend that Gan had only been able to make the crossing from the mainland by getting drunk out of his mind and that he'd spent his first week in Cazar hungover, refusing to leave the house or even look out of the windows. It did not make life among the corsair families particularly easy - and there was no way that someone as adept at reading lips could fail to realise how often the subject of snide comments from his neighbours.
"What do you think?" she asked him.
Gan furrowed his eyebrows. Carissa secretly loved his eyebrows and was sometimes disappointed that Haime had not inherited them. He could communicate more with his eyebrows than some people could with a ten minute speech. First they pulled together, then they moved up and out, then back together, then he arched one, huffed, and finally said.
"Are you sure you want to know?" his hands were a little hesitant.
She nodded.
"You should burn them all," he signed matter of factly, and then followed up with a flurry of signs she couldn't follow. She understood less than half of them, and felt a rush of shame at her own lack of understanding. Before she could say anything, though, he seemed to sense she was upset and stopped. He shook his head as if shaking something off and began again more slowly.
"You should hunt them back to where they live, and burn their boats. For every one of your people they have killed, you should kill five of theirs. They need to know that  they cannot come here and hurt you without consequence." His hands fell still then for a moment, and he looked at her his expression hard to read, his eyebrows still.
"They think they are strong, and that that means they can do whatever they want." 
There was a fierceness in his movements, and for a moment she wondered whether the neighbours who mocked him for his fear of the sea would be so quick to jibe if they saw the fury that rose within him at that moment. Then he stopped, his hands still and open, and for a moment she saw something in him she'd never really seen before, a sadness, an old pain, a memory of something. He looked past her, without blinking, for a few moments.
"Also you should free their slaves." He nodded then, several times. "Burn their boats, kill them, free their slaves. That is what I think you should do"
"Because it is virtuous." she agreed. He laughed soundlessly.
"No," he signed. "Because if you take their slaves away they will have to mine their own damn salt and they will ''hate'' it!"
 The mission to map the Bay of Catazar yielded important information and flagged up areas that should be explored further. Freeborn privateers should prioritise privateering and exploration around the Isle of Balsagoth, which is known for its rich weirwood forests and is harvested by Grendel slaves who we feel should be liberated.
## Overview
Mazo's [[Judgement]] is timely. The statement of principle catches something not only among the Freeborn. It spreads quickly to [[The League]], and [[Highguard]], an even to some of the captains of [[Urizen]]. The Grendel may have lost their entire armies, but it appears they don't know when they're beaten. They have become overconfident since the destruction of the Freeborn Storm and the shipyard at Atalya. They believe they own the [[Bay of Catazar]] - and while it is true that the Empire has nothing to match the armada currently at anchor outside Sarvos... they have perhaps underestimated the power of the citizens of the Empire. With the Broken Shore privateers bent on fruitlessly [[Mean what you say#Salt Tales|chasing Imperial merchant vessels]], now might be the perfect time to strike against them.
A strike against the [[Bay of Catazar#The Broken Shore|Broken Shore]] is not something to be considered lightly. It will take extensive planning, and if it is to have an impact it will need a very significant force of both [[Fleet|ships]] and [[Military unit|soldiers]]... but it could be done.
__TOC__
## Attack the Grendel, Raid the Salt Mine
Unlike previous actions such as [[Shelter from the storm|evacuating the Isle of Zemress]], [[Down along the cove|protecting the fishing fleet]], or [[How sweet is the sea|mapping the Bay of Catazar]], to be successful the raid against the Broken Shore will require both ships and soldiers.
Following the Autumn Equinox, the owners of [[Fleet]] resources will be able to assign them to support the "Attack the Slavers" action available on the [[Fleet#Take Independent Action|privateering]] drop-down menu. Each standard fleet assigned to support this action adds 100 strength to the opportunity. Each additional [[Fleet#upgrading|rank]] the resource possesses adds another 20 strength. Rituals and other effects that make a fleet more effective at the privateering action apply their benefits normally to the effective ranks. Once downtime closes, we will determine the outcome based on the total effective strength of all assigned fleets and military units.
Likewise, the owners of [[Military unit]] resources will find the "Raid the Salt Mines" action available from the [[Military unit#Take Independent Action|paid work]] drop down menu.. In the same way each standard miitary unit assigned to support this action adds 100 strength to the opportunity. Each additional [[Military unit#upgrading|rank]] the resource possesses adds another 20 strength. Rituals and other effects that make a military unit more effective at the paid work action apply their benefits normally to the effective ranks. 
Once downtime closes, the exact outcome of the opportunity will be determined by the total effective strength of all assigned fleets and military units. Because of the complex nature of this opportunity, it will be impossible to predict the production of any resource that supports it; everything will depend on how successful the action ultimately is.
### The Imperial Fleet Master
As they have on previous occasions, the expectation is that Esteban i Del Rio Blanco i Guerra the [[Imperial Fleet Master]] will orchestrate fleets to take part in this opportunity, and presumably will extend his responsibilities to include recruiting sufficient military units. The Civil Service will coordinate with the Fleet Master's office to deal with the complex minutiae of getting soldiers onto ships, organising movements of vessels, and the like. The Fleet Master will also be responsible for disposing of any significant resources secured as a result of this opportunity - especially mithril and weirwood.
it is possible that the Imperial Fleet Master may wish to launch an attack against a specific target. Using their power to [[Imperial Fleet Master#Address the Council|address the Military Council]] once each summit, the Fleet Master may declare one of the locations from the list. They will aim for that target provided they get sufficient fleets, regardless of how much they exceed it by. If they don't get enough fleets, they will still attack the most difficult target they can reach..The Imperial Fleet Master must be clear; they can pick only a single priority target.
### Freeing Slaves
The purpose of these raids is twofold; to disrupt the Grendel and to free slaves. The orcs of the Broken Shore use a mix of human and orc slaves - they don't really care who ends up in their salt mines, cleaning their floors, working their limited fields, or dying in their arenas. It will be impossible to pick and choose which slaves to free - once the chains are off, any who want to will be loaded onto Imperial ships and brought back to the Empire. Where they end up will depend in part on the mix of nations who provide fleets but it is likely they will be focused around the Bay of Catazar nations - the Brass Coast, the League, Highguard, and southern Urizen. At the moment, no particular provision has been made for these freed slaves - the focus is on breaking their chains and returning them to civilisation. The [[382YE Summer Solstice Synod judgements#Judgement 10|recently passed]] mandate by ''Eska Crowspeaker ensures that any slaves returned to the Empire will receive sanctuary and succour but decisions about what to do with them and how to integrate them into society may need to be made. It is likely that this will be dealt with in a Wind of Fortune next event
## Where You Go
The total effective strength of fleets committed to the "Attack the Grendel" action will determine how significant the targets of the opportunity will be.
If the military strength of the assigned fleets is less than 5000, then they will be unable to convey the Imperial soldiers effectively to and from the Grendel mainland. They will be restricted to attacking outlying outposts, and raiding ships at sea. If sufficient Imperial military units are sent then they will be be to capture a number of slave ships, freeing the prisoners in their holds and liberating their crews, but the overall impact will be blunted.
If at least 5,000 total strength of fleets is assigned to the action, then the imperial force will attack the [[Bay of Catazar#Temple of Tempest Jade|Temple of Tempest Jade]]. This is on the mainland north-east of fort Kuhnaven and is a massive structure said to contain a small Prince's ransom in tempest jade. 
The structure appears to be the centre of Grendel worship of the evil Spring eternal Siakha. If the Empire are able to destroy the Temple, it will break the power of that cult.
If at least 10,000 total strength of fleets is assigned to the action, then the Imperial force will be able to launch a raid against the [[Bay of Catazar#Vorlach|slave port of Vorlach]]. The town of Vorlach is a rich mining town that imports slaves and exports raw metals - including mithril - and salt. It is located in the northern coast of Shayeel and is controlled by the Salt Lord Moorvain. Any raid here will be a significant blow to his reputation and prestige. 
If the total strength of the fleets exceeds 15,000 then the Imperial force will be able to raid the [[Bay of Catazar#Balsagoth|Isle of Balsagoth]]. This large island is just north of Dubhtraig and the waters around it are regularly patrolled by Grendel warships. There is a great forest of weirwood here, and if the raid is successful - if the force of military units is large enough - then the Empire will be able to carry off this treasure in addition to freeing the slaves who are forced to prepare it.
If the Empire is able to commit a flotilla of fleets equal to 20,000 strength then that is sufficient to to enable an attack against [[Bay of Catazar#Dubhtraig|Dubhtraig]] itself. It is little more than a year since the Grendel invaded the Imperial city of Sarvos - what more fitting way to bloody their nose than to raid their own capital city? Ruled by the ruthless Salt Lord Suriad, Dubhtraig is the very centre of Grendel trade and piracy. There is mithril to be had here - it is known to be for sale to the right buyers in markets in Dubhtraig. A big enough raid would be able to free hundreds of slaves, as well as whatever mithril could be looted - and best of all to strike right at the heart of the Salt Lords Council.
## What You Do When You Get There
While the fleets are able to disrupt the Grendel by themselves, it is up to Imperial military captains to take the [[Fight|fight]] to the Grendel on land. The obvious targets for freeing slaves and disrupting the Grendel are the salt mines, and where they can be located, any Bourse resources. The total strength of military units attached to "Raid the Salt Mines" will influence how many slaves the Empire frees - and how much wealth they are able to seize from the Grendel.
This means that the target of the raid is determined by the strength of the fleets, but the effectiveness of the raid will depend on the total strength of the military units assigned.
For the raids to be truly effective, the Empire must commit at least 5,000 strength of military units. The more Imperial fleets the Empire has, the more impressive a target they can raid - but it won't matter how many fleets they provide if they don't have the soldiers to back it up. Whatever happens, the raid by Imperial vessels will give the Grendel a shock - but it won't be enough to carry off significant wealth or have any lasting effects. If this happens, every fleet and military unit will receive half the normal rewards they achieve from privateering or paid work.
If the Empire commit more than 5000 soldiers in total across all the military units assigned to the action then the outcome will depend on the target.
### Grendel Shipping
If the Imperial fleets are only able to support an attack on the Grendel Shipping then the results will be limited in scope. It will have an impact on Grendel profits and pride and give opportunities to carry off vessels and free slaves.
* At 5,000 effective strength, Grendel shipping will suffer a discernible impact. The Empire can expect to free around 200 slaves from the vessels they sack and every fleet and military unit will gain half the production they would normally expect in the form of random loot.
* At 10,000 effective strength, dozens of Grendel ships will be sunk. The Empire can except to free more than 300 slaves and every fleet and military unit will gain production. Grendel trade will be disrupted for the entire season. Grendel shipping will be heavily disrupted for the next six months due to the losses and it will make it impossible for them to harass Imperial shipping (as they are doing currently) next season.
* At 20,000 effective strength, scores of Grendel ships will be captured or destroyed. Upwards of 500 slaves will be freed and every fleet and military unit will get full production plus two additional random ingots of metal. Grendel shipping will be heavily disrupted for the next six months and that will stop them harassing harass Imperial shipping (as they are doing currently) for the next two seasons.
### Temple of Tempest Jade
If the Empire commits enough fleets to reach the Temple of Tempest Jade then the independent captains will be able to launch an assault on the Temple itself. How effective this will be depends on the strength of the military units.
* At 5,000 effective strength, the Temple will be raided. It will not be possible to breach the walls, but any outlying structures will be fire and looted and any slaves freed. This will allow the Empire to free around 250 slaves from the cages and pens that surround the temple. Every fleet and military unit will gain three-quarters of the production they would normally expect.
* At 10,000 effective strength, military captains will be able to attack the Temple directly, although they will be unable to breech the walls. In addition to freeing all the slaves held on lands around the Tmple, every fleet and military unit will gain full production plus two ingots of Tempest Jade. They will also recover valuable information about the strength of the forces that defend the Temple.
* At 20,000 effective strength, the Empire will be able to breech the walls and get inside the Temple. They will be able to slaughter the priests of Siakha and free all the slaves kept there, saving them from a horrible death. The Temple will be razed and looted and every fleet and military unit will get full production plus 10 additional ingots of Tempest Jade. Furthermore, the Imperial Fleet Master will receive 50 ingots of Tempest Jade taken from the walls of the Temple. The power of the priests of Siakha will be broken and they will left a pale shadow of their current power and influence.
### Vorlach
However, if the Empire commits enough fleets to make an attack on Vorlach feasible, the independent captains will be able to attack objectives in the territory including Salt Lord Moorvain's mines. How effective this will be depends on the strength of the military units.
* At 5,000 effective strength, Vorlach will be attacked. Around 250 slaves will be liberated from the town and the nearby mines. Every fleet and military unit will gain three-quarters of the production they would normally expect, plus two random ingots.
* At 10,000 effective strength, Vorlach will be damaged. Some 500 slaves will be liberated from the town and the nerby mines. Every fleet and military unit will gain full production plus two random ingots. Vorlach will be disrupted for at least a season, 
* At 20,000 effective strength, Vorlach will be fired and looted. The slave markets there will be comprehensively raided, as will the salt and mithril mines. As many as 1500 slaves will be liberated. Every fleet and military unit will get full production plus four additional random ingots of metal. Furthermore, the Imperial Fleet Master will receive 10 wains of mithril stolen from the salt lord, and the production of the mithril and salt mines will grind to a halt for as long as it takes to secure new workers. The city will suffer lasting damage which will take years to restore.
===Isle of Balsagoth=== 
A raid against the Isle of Balsagoth requires the Empire to deal with a heavy cordon of defensive ships. This means at least 15,000 fleets assigned to the "Attack the Slavers" action. It also requires a major investment of troops.
* At 5,000 effective military unit strength, the Isle will be raided. Around 300 slaves will be liberated, and that means that Grendel production of weirwood from the island will be halted for three months. Every fleet and military unit involved will gain three-quarters the amount of resources plus two random measures of forest materials.
* At 10,000 effective military unit strength, the island will be comprehensibly raided. The Empire expects to liberate around 500 slaves, and that will prevent any production of weirwood from the island for six months. Every fleet and military unit will gain the full amount of resources they would expect plus two random measures of forest materials.
* At 20,000 effective military strength, the Empire will be able to free every slave on the island (around 1000), preventing any production of weirwood for the next next three seasons. Every fleet and military unit will gain the full amount of resources they would expect normally, from the plunder taken from the island plus five random measures of forest materials. In addition, the Imperial Fleet Master will gain 10 wains of weirwood.
* At 30,000 effective military strength, the Empire will be able to slaughter all the defenders, liberate all the slaves and destroy the lumber mills and infrastructure used to harvest weirwood. There will no production of weirwood possible until the Grendel rebuild which will take at least a year. The Imperial Fleet Master will gain 25 wains of weirwood.
### Dubhtraig
The ultimate prize requires at least 20,000 fleet strength to be assigned, but would allow a direct raid against Salt Lord Suriad, her city, and her mines. It would be a stab right at the heart of Grendel strength.
* If less than 10,000 effective military force is assigned, the attack will not get past the docks. Around 250 slaves will be liberated, and every fleet and military unit will gain the normal production they would expect for privateering or paid work, but the lasting impact will be minimal.
* If at least 10,000 military force is assigned, the attack will penetrate into the city. At least 500 slaves will be liberated. Every fleet and military unit will gain the full amount of resources they would normally expect plus treasures and other art objects equivalent to 72 rings each. The city will be damaged, and the Imperial Fleet Master will receive 10 wains of weirwood and 10 wains of mithril. Damage to the docks will mean that the ability of the salt lords to harvest weirwood from Balsagoth will be halted for three months, and will also ensure the shipyard is unable to build any new navies for six months.
* If at least 20,000 military force is assigned, the attack will damage the city with the same effects as the 10,000 force attack above. In addition, the soldiers will be able to raid Suriad's salt and mithril mines, freeing at least another 500 slaves and securing an additional 10 wains of mithril. Mithril production from the mine and weirwood production from the Isle of Balsagoth will both be stopped for six months, the shipyard neutralised for nine months, and it will delay the Grendel raising a new army for six months. Every fleet and military unit assigned to the action will receive normal production plus Grendel wealth they can carry off equal to 108 rings each.
* If at least 30,000 military force is assigned, the attack will cause extensive damage to the city. In addition to the effects for 20,000 strength the attackers will be be able damage Fort Fuil and Fort Salann, and gain another additional 10 wains of mithril (for a total of 30 wains). The ability of Salt Lord Suriad to take mithril from her mine, and weirwood from Balsagoth, will be prevented for nine months, and the Grendel will not be able to commission another navy in Dubhtraig for at least a year, and any plans they may have to raise a new army will be delayed for a year. Every fleet and military unit assigned to the action will receive normal production plus Grendel wealth they can carry off equal to 132 rings each.
## Limited Opportunity
This opportunity is only available during the Autumn Equinox, and the downtime immediately following. It might in theory be possible to attempt to secure a similar opportunity in future, but there is no guarantee that combination of Freeborn anger and Grendel overconfidence will align in the same way again, or that such a large-scale attack will be possible again this generation.