---
IgnoreLinking: false
Tags:
- 384YE-Spring
- Recent-History
- Winds-of-Fortune
Title: To see what you sell
aliases:
- To_see_what_you_sell
draft: false
revision_date: 2023-12-08 14:22:27+00:00
revision_id: 106322
---

White Breath stared up at the imposing structure. It had taken weeks to get this far, but now that he was finally here his nerves were suddenly getting the better of him. The building didn't help - the chateau was huge, all pointed arches, with flying buttresses, window tracery, pinnacles and spires. It wasn't as intimidating as the city of [[Holberg]], but there was a set of grotesque carved stone faces at the end of rain spouts that emerged from the stonework high above him and their eyes seemed to be staring right at him.
For a Fleeting moment, he contemplated abandoning this mad quest and going back to the safety of his [[Family]], but he reminded himself that too many people were relying on him. The Sand Fishers needed [[Magic]]... and these people had offered to teach it to him. The people in this House might have some weapon the Sand Fishers could use against the [[Druj]] so they were counting on him to learn how to use it.
Steeling his [[Courage]] he lifted the heavy steel knocker from its plinth and slammed it back into [[The Door]] three times. The sound seemed to boom around his ears, much louder than any of the knockers he'd heard in Holberg. He cast wild glances left and right, and breathed a sigh of relief that there was nobody around to accuse him of doing something wrong.
For a long time nothing happened and then, with a heavy creak, the door swung back to reveal a short girl dressed in a very plain Dawnish robe with a heavily-stained apron over the top. Her skin was bone white, her eyes were dark hollows and she stared at White Breath with a piercing gaze that put him on edge. From her expression, it was clear she expected him to state his purpose.
He'd practised for this moment most of [[The Way]] here, but his attempt at a Dawnish bow was still stiff and his mouth ran dry as he spoke no matter how much confidence he tried to project. "Enchantress Claudia Remys, I am White Breath of the Sand Fishers. I have come to take up your offer to study magic." 
The young girl's hand flew to her mouth to stifle her laughter. "I'm not the Enchantress I'm afraid, " she said failing to conceal her grin, "I'm just Sibi the maid. You'd best come inside - we've been expecting you..."
## Overview
Audio|link=https://youtu.be/BiH5O1KjHcQ
A belief in the importance of the Virtue of [[Prosperity]] unites many people across [[The Empire]]. Now the [[Cardinal of Prosperity]] has endorsed a [[Mandate]] urging Prosperous citizens in [[Redoubt]] to seek out opportunities for economic development, particularly for those that might benefit refugees. Meanwhile the Empire's most recent refugees, the Sand Fishers have embraced Prosperity looking to benefit from the education the Empire is able to offer. And in [[The Brass Coast]], a peculiar buried tomb dedicated to a lost exemplar dedicated to enjoying the fruits of one's labours.... just as the followers of [[Zemress]], the exemplar of Prosperity, seek a new way to celebrate their shared faith with the Freeborn.
SOP|statement=There are three things that should never be made: Food that goes uneaten, coin that goes unspent and magic that goes unused. We send Bartimaeus with 25 [[Liao]] to Redoubt to urge all prosperous citizens to seek out new opportunities for commerce and development in their lands putting forWard their proposals for consideration at the next summit. In particular we would suggest refugees from other Urizeni territories to capitalise on the positive opportunities this change may have brought.|by=Darian Numbers, Mandate, Prosperity [[Assembly]]|vote=Greater Majority 211-0|when=Winter Solstice 383YE
## Redoubt
Due to recent [[Events]], Prosperous citizens of the Empire are eagerly seeking new opportunities for hard work and profit. The [[Cardinal]] of Prosperity has taken advantage of this enthusiasm to endorse a mandate urging the inhabitants of Redoubt to come forwards with a proposal. The territory has seen a steady stream of refugees in recent seasons, with Urizeni fleeing the Druj invasion of [[Zenith]], and the [[Grendel]] conquest of [[Spiral]]. The Cardinal expressed the wish that these newcomers ''"capitalise on the positive opportunities this change may have brought"''.
After much discussion, the focus finally turns to the settlement of Elos. Now reduced to little more than a sleepy fishing village, Elos was once the main port for [[Urizen]]'s small navy. It fell into decline after Urizen joined the Empire, but remnants of its former [[Glory]] are still there - the quayside is extensive and the harbour wall is fortified. There has been idle talk for years of bringing the port back into major use, but it has always been overshadowed by the more advanced facilities at Cargo.
However, now that Spiral is in the hands of the Grendel, Redoubt is the only coastline the Urizen have and there has been a concomitant increase in trade into Urizen ports as a result. Ever since the docks at Apulus were destroyed, more and more vessels have been putting into port at Cargo, Visten and Elos. While Cargo is the preferred destination of many captains, the geography makes it impossible to expand that port and some of the biggest vessels struggle to navigate their way up the Couros. So with the facilities at all three ports backed up with vessels waiting to unload, it is clear that significant investment into the docks at Elos would be the best way to improve the Prosperity of the entire Region. And by good fortune, it might also provide a few other benefits.
### Restoring Elos
* Restoring Elos would require 35 wains of [[Weirwood]], 35 wains of [[White granite]] and 140 crowns. It would take 6 months to complete
* While construction was underway any Urizen [[Fleet]] captain could move their resource to Redoubt at no [[Cost]]
* Once complete, 5 thrones and 50 random herbs would be split between all the Urizeni fleets operating out of Redoubt each season
* It would increase Imperial taxation from the territory by 10 thrones a season
* This Opportunity will lapse if the docks are not Commissioned by the end of 384YE.
Restoring the port facilities at Elos to their former glory is no small undertaking. It would require 35 wains of weirwood, 35 wains of white granite and 140 crowns and take 6 months to complete. It would need a Commission, but the work could be commissioned by any [[Imperial Title]] capable of commissioning a [[Great work]]. The rebuilt docks would double the capacity of Redoubt's Shipyards, allowing the territory to benefit from the much-increased trade in the [[Bay of Catazar]] following the signing of the peace treaty with the Grendel. Ships would come from all over the world to purchase the high-quality metals produced in Redoubt's Mines, creating valuable new opportunities for trade.
Green IronHerbs Available
5 ingots of Green Iron10 [[Cerulean Mazzarine]]
10 ingots of Green Iron18 Cerulean Mazzarine
15 ingots of Green Iron25 Cerulean Mazzarine
OrichalcumHerbs Available
5 ingots of Orichalcum9 [[Bladeroot]]
10 ingots of Orichalcum16 Bladeroot
15 ingots of Orichalcum22 Bladeroot
WeltsilverHerbs Available
5 ingots of Weltsilver12 True Vervain
10 ingots of Weltsilver20 True Vervain
15 ingots of Weltsilver26 True Vervain
Once the port facilities were complete, the improved dock facilities would enhance the productivity of every Urizeni fleet operating out of Redoubt. A bounty of 5 thrones and 50 random herbs would be split between all the Urizeni fleets operating the port that season. In addition, while construction of the port was underway there would be an opportunity for any Urizeni captain to relocate their existing Fleet to Redoubt from any of the other Urizeni territories without cost.
The [[Imperial Senate]] could create a new Imperial title to oversee the port, the Harbour Master of Elos Docks. If this title were appointed through the [[Imperial Bourse]], then the respect the position would engender would allow them to conduct a profitable trade with the vessels docking at the port, allowing the citizen who took the title to sell metals for herbs.
Finally, the burgeoning trade flowing through Elos would create opportunities for the refugees who have fled to Redoubt to establish new businesses and other operations. This would result in an increase in the taxation produced by the territory for the [[Imperial treasury]] of 10 thrones every season for as long as the docks were in good working order.
The opportunity to expand the Elos docks will be available for one year. The work must begin before the end of 384YE, otherwise enthusiasm and interest in the project from the Prosperous citizens of Redoubt will be lost.
### Additional Benefits
* The expanded docks would present a number of opportunities that could be capitalized on later
* The Grendel could not legitimately claim that the docks breached the treaty, but they would be aware of the threat the docks pose
The treaty with the Grendel prohibits The Empire from building a [[Shipyard]] on the Bay of Catazar. The Grendel navies dominate the open seas - and they clEarly intend to keep it that way. The expanded docks could only be used for commercial shipping, so the Grendel couldn't in good conscience claim that their construction violated the terms of the treaty. 
However, once complete, the docks could be quickly and cheaply expanded to include a shipyard. Such an expansion would only require 10 wains of white granite, 10 wains of weirwood and 20 crowns. While it would take 3 months to complete, the existing facilities would be good enough to start work on a navy at the same time as the shipyard was being built, saving precious time.
Perhaps more importantly, the presence of the nearby [[Penumbral Watcher]] would make it possible to hide what was happening from prying eyes. Whoever held the title could instruct the Night Mages who operate the facility to focus their efforts on veiling any construction work taking place at the port. As a result, the shipyard, and any navy being built there would go unobserved by Grendel spies or other foreigners visiting the port. If the Grendel scried the territory they would discover that The Empire had a veil up to conceal something, but it would be otherwise impossible for them to know what was happening. The only cost for this is that the Penumbral Watcher would be unable to produce any crystal fire or shadow myrrh while the mages were veiling the port.
Alternatively, the [[Imperial Conclave]] could use a [[Declaration]] of [[Concord]] to instruct the Night magicians to permanently apply themselves to the operation of any shipyard being constructed at the expanded docks. If passed then the title would permanently lose the ability to gain crystal fire and shadow myrrh, but any navies produced at the Shipyard would be able to take the "Shadowed" quality allowing them to issue the order to "Slip through the Mists". This would have the same effect as "Put to Port", but the movement of the navy would ''not'' be blocked by any opposing navies, no matter what orders they took. The shadowy vessels would be able to take advantage of the Night magics imbued in their hUlls to slip past their enemies unnoticed.
The Shipyard could be used to commission a navy of any nation that had the resources and the people to sustain it. Urizen is only capable of supporting one army, they simply do not have sufficient people to support a second army, but it is not impossible that they might be able to support a navy in addition to the [[Citadel Guard]] if the Elos docks were expanded. It would require suitable opportunities to make further investments in Urizen's naval facilities, but The Empire could either wait for a suitable opportunity to present itself, or else instruct the civil service to conduct an [[Appraisal]] to discover what opportunities could be found.
## Holberg
SOP|Assembly=Brass Coast|by=Luca i Taziel i [[Riqueza]]|statement=Zemress built homes for those without, and in giving she planted the seeds of mutual Prosperity. The Sand Fishers have been given a home, and now ask how to share their Prosperity with the Empire. The heart of prosperity is the home. When we offer a home to those displaced, we offer an opportunity to grow, and to share in the growth. We ask the Freeborn to welcome those who seek new shores after leaving their own, knowing in time they will be [[Worth]] far more than the boats which brought them.|vote=Greater Majority 174-0|when=Winter Solstice 383YE
SOP|Assembly=Brass Coast|by=Azahar i Liriu i [[Guerra]]|statement=In light of the Sand Fisher's desire to be prosperous, the Freeborn assembly invite the enterprising orcs to apprentice as scribes under our scriveners so they may learn business and literacy, so they may give back to our beloved Empire.|vote=Upheld with Primacy 250-0|when=Winter Solstice 383YE
SOP|Assembly=League|by=Lia Adelaar|statement=The Sand Fishers are no longer slaves and must get used to the idea that they will no longer be told what they must do. Contributions to any Imperial project would be valued. Options include improving the land in ways that will reflect in Senate revenue. Working with Spy networks to undermine Druj techniques for controlling their slaves; Improving their ability to contribute to [[Rituals]]; joining Pilgrimages; engaging in debate. Risky but [[Rewarding]] or safe but consistent. The decision to contribute is Prosperous however they do it. As free citizens they get to choose.|vote=Upheld with Primacy 194-0|when=Winter Solstice 383YE
SOP|assembly=[[Navarr]] |by=Harwyn [[Eternal]]|statement=The Sand Fishers seek to find ways to repay the Empire for our [[Assistance]]. We the Navarr national assembly would seek to show them our expression of national [[Loyalty]] and [[Pride]] in walking the trods to vanquish the greatest spiritual threat to the Empire. All Navarr should welcome them to join in this endeavour.|vote=Upheld with Primacy 154-0|when=Winter Solstice 383YE
SOP|assembly=Prosperity|by=Bartimaeus of Zenith Ascendant|statement=The truly Prosperous are not selfish; all that is worthwhile is shared with those who deserve it. We Challenge the Sand Fisher Orcs to prove that they deserve the supreme gift that has been shared with them. We ask them to learn and grow strong in body, mind and soul, so that together we can prepare the way for the next [[Tribe]] to be [[Liberated]] from the Druj. In time, they should toil to become worthy to walk alongside the other Nations of the Empire as Equals on the Path of the Way, on our Journey to share Our Gift with the rest of the world.|vote=Greater Majority 181-10|when=Winter Solstice 383YE
* The Sand Fisher orcs have responded to many of the ideas put forward during the Winter Solstice as to how they might repay the Empire for its aid
Having settled in Holberg, after the Empire ceded Misericorde to them, the Sand Fishers have eagerly embraced the virtue of Prosperity. Although they are not Imperial citizens, they are clearly foreigners, they have not been shy to ask the Empire for help. They asked, and were granted, access to the university and other schools of learning in the city, with the Imperial Senate paying to provide extra classes to help swiftly remedy the shortcomings in their education inflicted by the Druj. Within weeks, the sight of the occasional Sand Fishers hurrying to attend lessons in the City is becoming increasingly common. If the Sand Fishers still feel uncomfortable in the dense streets of Holberg, it is not enough to put them off taking advantage of the Opportunity presented.
The Sand Fishers appear to have taken the tenets of Prosperity to heart. In particular, they expressed concern that Prosperity demands that they do not take without giving. They are cognizant of the many things they have asked for, and received, from the Empire - land and learning and protection from the Druj. Now they are keen to see how they might return the favour and so they asked the Empire to give them some indication of how they might help.
By way of response, the [[Imperial Synod]] passed not one, but five different statements of principle, each offering suggestions, advice and encouragement. Not to be outdone, the Imperial Conclave also passed two declarations; while they were not prepared to grant the orcs access to the entirety of [[Imperial lore]] as they had asked, they did receive offers of instruction in the magical arts from two different groups, the [[Imperial Orcs]] and House Remys.
The Freeborn raised not one, but two Judgements, one encouraging the Sand Fishers to find homes on the Coast and the other offering to apprentice them as scribes under their scriveners ''"so they may learn business and literacy"''. This second [[Judgement]] in particular proves appealing to the Sand Fishers, while few of them are keen to leave the lands the Empire has granted them, they are very interested in learning and especially in understanding more about the Empire and its legal system and the chance to gain a well-paid career appeals to a handful of them who make the relevant arrangements.
House Remys' offer is gratefully taken up by the only Sand Fisher who has any proficiency with the winter arts, a young orc called White Breath. He makes the long journey to [[Dawn]] alone, filled with hope and enthusiasm for the Opportunity to learn. The Imperial Orc's offer inviting the Sand Fishers to study at the [[Skarsind]] school of Warcasting is also received well, albeit cautiously, and more than thirty Sand Fishers arrive in Skarsind. They are eager to arm themselves so that they can [[Fight]] next time the Druj return. Their only hesitation is rooted in a strong distrust of other orc tribes - while the Sand Fishers realize the Imperial Orcs are completely different to the Druj... their long and bitter subjugation means many of them are wary of taking offers of aid from other orcs. 
The judgement of the Prosperity Assembly, encouraging the Sand Fishers to ''"grow strong in body, mind and soul"'' is welcomed but the Sand Fishers are clear that they already aim to do just that. They welcome the idea of being able to help the Empire liberate other tribes from the Druj but they have nothing to add to that endeavour. It appears that the Sand Fishers had little contact with other subject tribes - it was apparently one of the many things the Druj forbade. They are intrigued by the Navarr Assembly's invitation to walk the trods, most are too busy working to improve their new homeland, but more than a dozen with a wanderlust and a desire to see more of the Empire take up the offer, staying at Navarr Wayhouses along the way and always insisting on working in exchange for their board (since they have almost no money to speak of).
However, it is the judgement of [[The League]] National Assembly, laying out a clear list of things the Sand Fishers might do to repay the Empire's generosity that receives the most positive response. This appears to have been exactly what they were hoping for, and the judgement is poured over by the orcs and discussed at great length. They quickly discard some suggestions - they don't know any rituals, so contributing to rituals is out of the question. Joining pilgrimages is similarly ruled out - the Sand Fishers are almost unnervingly pious about the Way, which they have embraced with zeal, but they struggle to see the benefits of a [[Pilgrimage]], to them and particularly not to the Empire. 
The idea of working with spy networks, to try to undermine the Druj appeals to them... but in the end it is clear that they don't yet have the confidence for such a thing. Anyone spying on the Druj would have to endure life in the miasma, and that is something the Sand Fishers are keen never to experience again. Perhaps if they had been encouraged to embrace Courage above all other virtues, things might have been different. Since they took Prosperity to their hearts, it is the idea of improving the land in ways that will benefit Senate revenue that ultimately appeals to them the most.
After help from the civil service, they devise a simple but effective plan to log the Forests of Misericorde and Utterlund. Their idea is to produce a steady supply of good quality building timber to be sold in Holberg, whilst taming the forests, to allow them to create woodland preserves like the ones that used to be common in the region in years past. Their long term goal is to turn both regions into well managed profitable woodlands - thereby adding to the wealth and taxation of Holberg as a whole.
To achieve it the civil service calculates the Sand Fishers will need 15 wains of [[Mithril]] and 15 wains of weirwood - enough to create a set of powerful sawmills spread across the two regions. They are clear however that they do not want ''any'' further assistance from the Empire to gather the [[Materials]] needed. They are quite set on not taking without giving - so they intend to purchase the materials they need at the newly constructed Misericorde Market as and when they become available. That means it will take them an absolute minimum of two years to gain the materials they need to start on their great work, a prospect that doesn't seem to daunt them in the slightest. They express quiet resolve that the Empire will hear no more from them until the project is ready to begin.
### The Sand Fishers in Play
If you are playing a Freeborn scrivener, you are welcome to roleplay that you have met a Sand Fisher who has travelled to the Brass Coast looking to study to become a scrivener. Likewise, if you are a member of House Remys, then you may have met or taught White Breath, a young Sand Fisher apprentice who has come to the house to learn necromancy. Any Imperial Orc who might have been involved with the School of Warcasting will definitely have met at least one or more of several Sand Fishers who have taken up the offer to become students there learning battle magic. Equally any Navarr character is welcome to roleplay that they have encountered a small group of Sand Fishers, two or three at most, travelling the trods.
All Sand Fishers tend to be quiet and contemplative by nature. They seem to study the world around them and the people they meet carefully as if keen to know more about everyone and everything. They are zealous in their [[Dedication]] to Prosperity, hard working in the extreme - and while they are not grasping, they are very clearly highly motivated to better themselves, proactively looking for opportunities to learn new [[Skills]] and access new opportunities. They seem to be cautious of strangers, with a lingering distrust for anyone who is not a Sand Fisher, but once you gain their trust they are as warm-hearted and generous as anyone from the ten nations.
Most have simple descriptive two-part names like Three Hands, Red Eyes, or White Breath. A few still wear the simple clothing they brought with them from [[The Mallum]], but the majority have purchased spare garments in Holberg, so they are dressed in the kind of clothing an extremely poor Holberg citizen might wear, giving them a slightly incongruous appearance.
The Sand Fishers remain an NPC group at this point, so it is not possible for players to create a Sand Fisher character at this time.
Mandate|Mandate=The Festival of the Broken Wheel is an accepted part of the tradition of the three tribes but it should not be the only nationwide celebration in the Freeborn Calendar. The Coast is the birthplace of Zemress, an inspirational figure who brought Prosperity to the world. We send Rhaego i Zemress with 50 liao to urge all Freeborn citizens to come together to forge a celebration inspired by our exemplar that uplifts our Prosperity and Virtue.|assembly=Brass Coast
## [[Segura]]
* The Freeborn are discussing how best to celebrate Prosperity, and the inspiration of [[The Blade]] of the Isles
Although the Zemress islanders have been accepted by the Freeborn egregore and settled into life in Segura in the Brass Coast, they continue to dislike the Feast of the Broken Wheel. The Islanders have not been quiet about the fact that they see the Feast as a failure of Pride. They believe a festival should be uplifting, and celebrate virtuous accomplishments, not ridicule everything the virtuous hold dear. With the support of the [[Sumaah]] they urged the Freeborn Assembly to consider if there wasn't some other way that the people of the Brass Coast might celebrate their virtue.
In response Rhaego i Zemress raised a mandate defending the Festival of the Broken Wheel, but calling on the Freeborn to find other ways that they could ''also'' celebrate the virtues. In particular, they cited the inspirational figure of Zemress, a beloved exemplar of the Brass Coast who brought Prosperity to the world. With their moral authority strengthened by the greater majority that the judgement achieved, Rhaego has spread the mandate far and wide across The Brass Coast, causing a great deal of interest and support. It would seem that the people of The Brass Coast are keen to see a new festival founded, but as yet there is no agreement on the form that such a celebration should take. How best to celebrate Prosperity and the example set by Zemress?
### Telling Stories
Bakar i Riqueza believes the new festival should be an exploration of the things that inspire people day to day. They propose a celebration where people tell stories of the great deeds of others. To aggrandise the self is vulgar, but to praise the deeds of another is an art, according to Bakar. People should gather to tell stories of recognised exemplars/paragons (not just Zemress, but also Ahraz, Badir, even non-Freeborn like [[Kethry]] or [[Tian]]), great figures from history ([[Erigo]], Riqueza, Guerra, or the half a dozen historic citizens in the public records), and the deeds of the [[Heroes]] of the empire who have attended [[Anvil]], past or present.
There could be dramatic retellings of the Freeborn exodus, or someone praising the deeds of their friend on [[The Battlefield]] earlier that day. It would be free-form and unstructured. Initially, it would spread across every campfire in the nation, but there is no reason it might not go beyond that. People could fan out across Anvil taking their stores to every campfire they can find. It might lead to an expectation of trading stories, if someone tells you a story you do not know, the expected price is that you share with them a story they do not know. People would be encouraged to prepare a few stories in advance, and it would give everyone a chance to celebrate the great moments they have personally experienced.
Although some Freeborn disapprove of boasting about yourself, Bakar suggests a little leeway on that for this festival. The Festival of the Broken Wheel is all about breaking rules after all - this new festival could be a chance for people to boldly announce the things they'd love to brag about, or to find a friend and privately swap boasts if they prefer. Friends could exchange dramatic stories about themselves with each other so that each could tell the other's tale. [[Sutannir]] could offer the same service to anyone for a fee.
### Building Legacies
Rather than a form for the festival, Iñez i Azul-Mar i Erigo, suggests a purpose. Their idea is that the festival might best celebrate Zemress by encouraging everyone to come together and share what they can spare to pay for something valuable for the nation. While the Freeborn are often resistant to charity, one of the core tenets of the faith is that ''"The Prosperous are not selfish; all that is worthwhile is shared with those who deserve it"''. Zemress herself became famous for sharing her successful bounties with the deserving, putting the wealth she gained into projects to help the community. Likewise the [[Red Wind Corsairs]] have an old tradition of The Haul, where heroes compete to loot items of value from the battlefield, and the winner donates something they have claimed to be sold to support the nation.
In practice, such a festival could take many forms. It is hard to imagine a Freeborn celebration that doesn't include [[Music]] and dancing, even the notoriously stoic Islanders are [[Adamant]] that the festival should be a proper celebration with entertainment and revelry to match. Perhaps wealthy dhomiros might compete to demonstrate their Prosperity and success by conspicuously paying the musicians handsomely - with every tenth coin going into the collection. People could share their exploits in with dramatic stories of the wealth they have earned over the year - after each story is complete, the storyteller could contribute a little of their Prosperity to add to the pot. There could be auctions of valuable items or resources that wealthy families have donated.
This festival would thus be a way to celebrate what everyone has achieved but also a way to raise much-needed funds to help improve the Prosperity of the Coast each time. This would need some organization of course, but Iñez suggests such a thing would be a natural job for the [[Hakima]], leaving the sutannir free to plan the festivities.
### Backing Horses
The Festival of the Broken Wheel is celebrated at the Autumn Equinox, so the natural counterpoint for the new festival would be the Spring Equinox. That would give the Freeborn citizens at Anvil a year to plan a vibrant festival that exemplified The Brass Coast traditions and celebrated Zemress' life. We have included two suggestions put to us above, but the best festival will be one that has a unique character that fits the Coast while also being enjoyable to celebrate and having widespread participation by the majority of Freeborn characters in play. Other nations have created their own iconic and enormously popular celebrations, like the Highborn procession of the Dead or the Dawnish Night of Flowers - this is a chance for the Freeborn players to create something similar.
The decision to create a new festival is not a legal one, so it does not require any Judgement, motion or the like. What matters is that the festival fits with the themes of the nation, enjoys popular support from the players and is fun to roleplay. Rhaego i Zemress' Mandate has primed the Freeborn to embrace some new festival that upholds the beloved [[Corsair]]'s [[Legacy]], now the folk at Anvil must complete the hard work of deciding how best to do that.
The Spring Equinox of 385YE - almost a year from today - will be the ideal time for the Freeborn to stage their festival. If the characters who come to Anvil are successful in creating something iconic that enjoys the popular support of the nation then it will be embraced far and wide across the Brass Coast.
### Breaking Wheels
The Zemress islanders have accepted that the Festival of the Broken Wheel will not be set aside, no matter how much they personally dislike it. Most have steeled themselves to ignore the festivities this Autumn, but a few among their number are not quite willing to let the matter rest. They point out that one of the problems with the Festival of the Broken Wheel is that it is difficult not to be affected by it. Even if a Freeborn citizen wishes to maintain their decorum and refuses to involve themselves in the pranks and prattle, they claim they are still affected by the festival because everyone they meet assumes they are taking part in the festival and treats them accordingly.
To resolve this matter, they propose that all participants in the Festival of the Broken Wheel adopt a simple common garment that demonstrates that their actions are part of the Festival. A white tagelmust or headscarf, to replace the traditional tagelmust, could be ideal, since few if any Freeborn will wear white due to its association with the poor. The very fact that most Freeborn avoid white cloth and white clothes make it an ideal choice both practically and philosophically given the purpose of the festival is to do the opposite of what you would normally. Best of all, a cheap strip of plain white cloth is something most people could acquire without too much cost.
The Freeborn could change The Way the festival works with a simple mandate.
Mandate|mandate=Pride conveyed by words alone is vain boasting; proclaim it by how you conduct every part of your life. Those who embrace the Festival of the Broken Wheel should demonstrate their Pride in this traditional festival by donning a white head scarf, robe or similar. We send {named priest} with 25 doses of liao to urge Freeborn citizens to dress in such a way that everyone knows who is celebrating the Festival.|assembly=Brass Coast
If this mandate were passed, the new tradition would be eagerly adopted by the majority of people across the Brass Coast. While most Freeborn citizens avoid white clothing, a core tenet of the Festival is to turn tradition on its head. We would update the wiki to make the new tradition clear and encourage all players to embrace it.
The mandate would also resolve much of the problems the Zemress Islanders have with the festival and might go some way to convince the Sumaash that the Coast takes these issues seriously.
## [[Kahraman]]
* A peculiar buried tomb has been discovered in Gambit, just south of Rojota
* [[The Tomb]] appears to be dedicated to a forgotten exemplar of Prosperity
News has spread across the northern Brass Coast of a peculiar discovery in the Lasambrian-threatened grasslands of Gambit. Soldiers from the garrison at Fort Braydon, skirmishing with a Corazón raiding party a day or so south-west of Rojota, find unexpected shelter. While battered and injured from their engagement with the orcs, they stumbled across the entrance to a subterranean area marked by two immaculate banners. Silver on green, each patterned with three fleur-de-lys, the mysterious banners bore a lingering [[Aura]] of [[Autumn magic]], but there was no sign of who might have raised them. 
It seems they have found an old - possibly ancient - tomb buried beneath the dry grasslands. The scouts report that the tomb is rich, with a table full of objects tied up with lace; broken plaster; and an urn that they presume holds the ashes of whoever it is the tomb was built to honour. They also speak of a superlatively potent aura that enfolded them as soon as they entered. While the aura felt similar to the [[Consecration]] of Prosperity there were unfamiliar nuances. They spoke of an urge to celebrate, to enjoy the fruits of their hard work - in this case their victory over the orc scouts. During the evening they spent sheltered in the hidden tomb, the soldiers actually threw an impromptu party, sharing what remained of their rations, and telling stories until the small hours of the morning. Several swear that the food and drink they consumed tasted "''as if it were fresh from the markets of Siroc, rather than having been carried in our backpacks for the better part of a fortnight''."
One of the hakima who hears their story remembered tales of traders in Anvil with items similarly wrapped in lace, and hearing of an ancient letter kept by the Red Hills Coven that linked a tomb and the divining crystal of Riqueza. He believes this might actually be the inspirational tomb of a lost Freeborn exemplar by the name of ''Badir i Durr i Riqueza''.  He can't entirely remember how he knows, but he has a vague (possibly mist-addled) memory that there were some people specifically interested in unusual news of this nature. Xalvadora i Riqueza, Serge i Fijadoz i Riqueza, and Bakar i Riqueza in particular. He dispatches several letters urging Freeborn priests to speak to these people, to learn why Badir is important, why their tomb has suddenly appeared, and what it might portend.
### Opportunity
There is little time to explore the suddenly revealed tomb; the Lasambrian [[Jotun]] are advancing on Rojota and there is every chance that all of Gambit will be under their sway by the end of the Spring Equinox. Even if their advance is not stopped, however, it is unlikely the Lasambrian Jotun will interfere with the tomb. On the whole the Jotun are scrupulous about not desecrating burial places, even those of their enemies. This is doubly true of the Lasambrian Jotun - and likely even more true if that place bears a potent virtuous aura.
However, there is some interest in exactly why the tomb appeared at this precise time. Who was Badir i Durr i Riqueza? Why is their alleged tomb so consecrated? Why does nobody seem to know who they are? The civil service are able to confirm that there is a record of a Judgement or [[Recognition]] dating from the Expansion - from the reign of [[Empress Varkula]] - but there's very little actual information. Perhaps everyone at the time knew who he was, and why he deserved recognition as an exemplar of Prosperity?
In happier times it might be a simple matter to launch an expedition to The Tomb but the presence of three armies of Lasambrian Jotun in Gambit make that a little less viable. A few Freeborn priests have suggested that the best place to start would be with the three Riqueza everyone suddenly seems to know have a connection to the place (which is in itself interesting - while people ''know'' they are somehow connected to The Tomb nobody seems to be able to remember exactly where they first heard their names). Then perhaps [[Historical research]] might be commissioned? The discovery of The Tomb coincides surprisingly well with the [[Appointment]] of the first [[Lepidean Librarian]], who possesses the power to investigate inspirational figures. Another example of the peculiar synchronicity that surrounds this tomb.
A few have pointed out another strange coincidence about the timing of this discovery - a tomb that seems to have a specialised aura of Prosperity that encourages people to celebrate the fruits of their labour appearing at a point when the folk of the Brass Coast are discussing how best to celebrate Prosperity? How many coincidences need to pile up before they stop looking coincidental?