---
IgnoreLinking: False
Tags: ['Recent-History', 'Winds-of-Fortune', '383YE-Winter']
Title: Whither the seed
aliases: ['Whither_the_seed']
draft: False
revision_date: 2022-04-12 14:59:40+00:00
revision_id: 88454
---

Elin Quiet Words examined the shadowed face that stared out at her from beneath the black cowl. The herald's face was stony, inscrutable, it held no indication of the enormity of what it had said. The demands it made were outrageous... unthinkable... But that was the problem when you dealt with the eternals of the [[Winter]] Wastelands. There was no room for compromise, no room for negotiation. You either took their aid and paid the price they demanded for it... or you left empty-handed and hungry.
"It's too much" she said, as much to herself as to the Sorrowful One's minion. "There must be some other way?"
"There is no other way" the creature responded, its flat lifeless tones scraping at her nerves. "If you would have the Dark Between the Stars come to your aid - then you must meet the price."
"I can't... I can't take this offer to the [[Steadings|steadings]], the stridings." she protested, feeling the bile rise in her throat. "It can't end like this. It just can't".
For a long time the creature said nothing. Just stood, lifeless as stone, staring at her. There was no hate in its eyes... there was nothing there at all. The gaze was cold and lifeless, its eyes as flat and dead and the voice it used. She remembered a Highborn [[Magister|magister]] claiming once that all eternals were evil - but the Winter [[Realm|realm]] was the only one that never pretended otherwise. Finally it spoke - one more sentence - just three more words.
"All things end."
And then it was [[Gone|gone]] and the audience was over.
## Overview
At the recent [[Summer]] Solstice, the [[Navarr]] performed the potent [[Curse|curse]] [[Wither the Seed]] on the [[Territory|territory]] of [[Brocéliande]]. The [[Magic|magic]] was used to hinder [[The Vallorn|the vallorn]], allowing [[The Empire|the Empire]] to exploit a crucial [[Weakness|weakness]] and try to claim more territory from the [[Navarr]]'s ancient enemy. While the [[Winter ritual]] has succeeded in inhibiting and sapping the energy of the [[Vallorn]], it has taken a deadly toll on those [[Navarr]] eking out an existence in the territory. With every passing year, fewer and fewer [[Children|children]] [[Will|will]] be born in the territory, and it [[Will|will]] get worse over the three decades that the [[Curse|curse]] endures.
Faced with this grim future, the people of [[Brocéliande]] appealed to the nation to find some way to lift the terrible [[Curse|curse]]. They can endure its baneful energies for long enough to allow the [[Navarr]] to press the advantage against [[The Vallorn|the Vallorn]], but if the [[Curse|curse]] cannot then be lifted, they [[Will|will]] be faced with a grim future. The idea of giving up on [[Brocéliande]] is deeply unpalatable - but so is the idea of seeing one's line wither and die. The thought of enduring that for thirty years is simply more than many of them can bear.
In response the [[Navarr]] [[Assembly|assembly]] called for the vates to seek out ways that the [[Curse|curse]] might be lifted. Corey [[Wayfarer]] raised the [[Judgement|judgement]] and with the backing of the [[Greater majority|greater majority]] of the [[Assembly]] he agreed to spread word throughout the land, urging the people of the nation to seek out ways this hideous curse might be broken.
SOP|statement=The people of [[Brocéliande]] stand guard against the [[Vallorn|vallorn]], but they should not sacrifice their future to do so. The curse can be removed, but it [[Will|will]] require a great working of [[Magic|magic]] to do so. We send Corey Wayfarer with 50 [[Liao|liao]] to urge all the people of the nation to identify ways that we might raise the magical might we need.|by=Corey Wayfarer, Navarr Assembly|vote=Greater Majority 190-0|when=[[Autumn]] Equinox 383YE
## Coins
* Commissions could be built to provide the vates with potions to help power their [[Magic|magic]]
There are two obvious ways the curse ''might'' be broken, using either powerful [[Spring magic]] to try and directly counter the effects, or perversely using powerful [[Winter magic]] to try and weaken the [[Magic|magic]] enough to end it. Either is likely to require the Navarr to perform a powerful [[Ritual|ritual]], using a [[Regio]] that [[Will|will]] potentially need to be defended from [[The Vallorn|the Vallorn]] and perhaps other threats as well. It's not possible to perform the ritual at [[Anvil]], since [[Brocéliande]] is not part of [[The Empire|the Empire]].
Getting enough vates to be able to cast a powerful ritual is not easy task, but it is harder still if those magicians have to leave [[Anvil]] to do so. What would make it easier, potentially much easier, is if the Navarr have a good cache of powerful potions that boost a ritualists ability to draw on the power of the appropriate [[Realm|realm]]. Such potions are not cheap but they last until they are used so if the Navarr can start acquiring them now, then they could stockpile them in readiness.
InvestmentBenefits
8 crowns3 Vernal Balms
17 crowns6 Vernal Balms
1 [[Ilium|ilium]], 6 crowns1 [[Talonvine Infusion]]
1 [[Ilium|ilium]], 14 crowns1 Talonvine Infusion, 3 Vernal Balms
2 [[Ilium|ilium]], 12 crowns2 Talonvine Infusions
2 [[Ilium|ilium]], 18 crowns2 Talonvine Infusions, 3 Vernal Balms
A number of vates make suggestions for commissions that might provide one or more useful resources, but the biggest problem is that nobody is quite certain at this stage whether they need [[Spring]] or [[Winter magic]] (indeed one [[Vate|vate]] even suggests that they might use a powerful [[Night ritual]] to try and disrupt or mutate the shape of the curse into something else). The argument continues for some time, until Niamh Swan's Rest a [[Broker|broker]] who specialises in the purchase of potions suggests that what is really needed here is some flexibility. The resources the Navarr need already exist, they just need someone to connect them up.
She proposes to [[Commission|commission]] the Brokers Chain, a set of three small offices, one in Peakedge Stead in [[Therunin]], one in Treji in [[Hercynia]], and one in the city of Seren. Normally something like this would need three different commissions and three different citizens to run the offices, but the Navarr are masters of linking people up across [[The Empire|the Empire]]. The civil service confirm that the Navarr could construct the Brokers Chain with a single [[Commission|commission]] and have it overseen by a single Navarr citizen.
Niamh's idea is elegantly simple, the Navarr [[Assembly]] can use a [[Statement of Principle|statement of principle]] to spread the word of whatever potions the nation needs throughout [[The Empire|the Empire]]. Navarr stridings can purchase the potions wherever they become available... and then just drop them in at the next Broker's Chain office they pass, or else pass them on to another [[Striding|striding]] who can. It will need money to make it work of course... but it's a simple, elegant solution that would leverage the one thing the Navarr do better than anyone else - going everywhere and talking to everyone.
The Brokers Chain would require a [[Senate motion]] or a wayleave to authorize and would require a single [[Commission]] slot to build. It would need 16 wains of [[Weirwood|weirwood]] and [[Cost|cost]] 32 crowns but could be built in a single season. Once complete it would create a new [[Imperial Title]], the ''Factor of the Broker's Chain''. This would need to be a Navarr [[Appointment|appointment]], preferably a broker for obvious reasons, but Niamh suggests that it would work best if it were a Navarr [[National Assembly]] [[Appointment|appointment]], since the position would have to work closely with the Navarr in [[The Synod|the Synod]].
Initially the Brokers Chain would allow the Factor to invest money each season to purchase one or more [[Vernal Balm]] potions or even a Talonvine Infusion if the [[Ilium]] could be found to pay for it. However if needed, the Navarr [[Assembly]] could use a [[Statement of Principle]] to encourage all the brokers connected to [[The Chain|the Chain]] to look out for any chance to buy the equivalent potions that exist for the other [[Realms|realms]]. That is they could change to the equivalent potions from the [[Decoctions of Hoarfrost]], the [[Unguents of Falling Leaves]], the [[Tinctures of True Eminence]], the [[Lambent Essences]] or the [[Magnum Opus]].
The one flaw in the Brokers Chain is that it would only work if all three offices were up and running. If the region one of them was in were captured or overrun, then the entire network would become inoperable until it was regained or replaced.
## Princes
* There is rumour of a [[Ritual text|ritual text]] possessed by the Princes of [[Jarm]] that might remove [[Wither the Seed]]
''Drustan Brocs Guard'' is a middle-aged vate who travelled widely in his youth, including long periods spent travelling and studying in Jarm. According to Drustan, he once stayed in Vezak where he "encountered" a young Jarmish prince by the name of Raina Telep whose [[Family|family]] ruled the Principality of Hordoba. Hordoba was engaged in a furious struggle with the neighbouring Principality of Garjina with each side accusing the other of cursing their territory.
WingedMessenger|address=[[Magician]] Prince Raina Telep, Principality of Hordoba
Drustan was arrested by the Hordoba authorities on suspicion of spying for Garjina and endured months of imprisonment and painful questioning. The relevance of this sorry story is that during his interrogation, Raina Telep visited him in his cell to gloat over "his defeat". Drustan recalls that the young prince seemed convinced that he was part of Garjina's schemes and that he had helped to create the powerful Winter curse that was afflicting Hordoba, causing misery and ''infertility''. Raina had come to boast having secured possession of a powerful [[Spring ritual|Spring Ritual]] text that she claimed was more that powerful enough to [[Shatter|shatter]] Garjina's curse.
Drustan was eventually released and swiftly returned to [[The Empire|the Empire]], vowing never to return to Jarm again, and hoping to forget the unpleasant memories. Now of course, the entire event suddenly seems like it could be relevant. If this Prince Raina is still alive, if she still has access to the ritual text, then her [[Family|family]] might be persuaded to allow the Navarr to use it?
The civil service are able to confirm that they believe Prince Raina Telep is still alive and part of the [[Family|family]] that rules the Principality of Hordoba. They have provided details to allow the Navarr to send a winged message to her if they wish to do so. Drustan warns that the ritual text is unlikely to come cheap; he considers the Teleps to be unusually greedy, venal, and self-serving even by the standards of Jarm's corrupt magocracy - but that it is still likely to be cheaper than codifying a high level Spring ritual.
## Stars
* A potent [[Enchantment|enchantment]] using priceless ilium might unmake the curse
What [[Magic|magic]] has wrought, magic can undo, it is only ever a matter of [[Cost|cost]]. So says Gethin, a vate who dwells at Stars End [[Striding]] in [[Miaren]]. The problem is that the price to undo some acts can be immeasurably higher than the [[Cost|cost]] to perform the action in the first place. Gethin likes to demonstrate this principle with a simple lesson for his students, where he takes a cheap clay vase, shatters it with a single blow of his cudgel, and then challenges his pupils to use magic to put it back together. It is so much easier to change your mind than it is to change your actions.
Still - it can be done - It can always be done. Provided you are prepared to foot the bill. Gethin has spent years studying the power of Ilium, the priceless star metal that provides near limitless power to magic when used in enchantments. Drawing on his long years of experience, he has created a Spring [[Arcane projection|arcane projection]] that would directly counter the power of the curse in Brocéliande. The [[Enchantment|enchantment]] is surprisingly low level - it is only magnitude 30 - but it employs some simple Spring magics designed to boost fertility in an area.
Normally such a ritual would have no chance of overcoming the power of a potent Winter curse like [[Wither the Seed]]. But Gethin has designed their [[Arcane projection|arcane projection]] to work explicitly in Brocéliande, to account for the current conditions there, and to counter them... A Spring effect that would provide a permanent boost to the fertility in the region, but using star metal to give it a power the Winter curse could not overcome. For as long as the Winter curse endured, the ilium bound [[Enchantment|enchantment]] would be a match for it. 
And therein lies the [[Cost|cost]]. Gethin's [[Arcane projection|arcane projection]] could easily be performed, it seems difficult to imagine that the Navarr could not find a [[Coven|coven]] able to perform a Spring ritual of magnitude 30, even unmastered. They would have to wait until an [[Opportunity|opportunity]] arose to perform the ritual in the territory of course, but more importantly they would need to foot the bill. Gethin's [[Arcane projection|arcane projection]] requires a king's ransom, needing 90 rings of ilium to perform.
Of course once the Winter curse faded the permanent [[Enchantment|enchantment]] would have to be dealt with - but that would be three decades hence. Plenty of time to find a solution to that problem.
## Friends
* The [[Citadel Guard]] could provide the focus needed to target Brocéliande with a ritual
One of [[The Key|the key]] challenges facing the Navarr if they want to break the curse they put on Brocéliande will be identifying a suitable [[Regio]] that is accessible via the [[Sentinel Gate]] and then convincing enough vates to risk their lives to travel there. [[The Sentinel]] [[Gate]] responds to the whims of fate, so it's reasonable to imagine that at some point it might provide an [[Opportunity|opportunity]] to travel to a powerful [[Regio|regio]] in Brocéliande, they are likely going to have to sit on their hands and simply wait for to happen. That alone is frustrating, to say nothing of the challenges faced when such an [[Opportunity|opportunity]] does eventually surface.
Two things would make the task facing the Navarr significantly easier. If they could determine the point at which they were ready to attempt to break the ritual, rather than waiting to see what fate provided, then they would not be left sitting on their hands. More importantly, if they could perform the ritual from [[Anvil]], they would gain all the benefits of employing a powerful [[Regio|regio]], and it would be vastly easier to gather enough magicians together to perform the magic.
Fortunately both of those goals could be achieved in a single stroke by one of [[The Nations|the nations]] of the Empire. The [[Urizen]] army possess a unique quality, it has so many magicians that it can act as a focal point for Imperial magic, allowing the Empire to cast [[Rituals|rituals]] from [[Anvil]] on any territory where it is present. If [[Urizen]] would agree to move the [[Citadel Guard]] to Brocéliande in advance of the summit where the Navarr were ready to perform their ritual, then the magic could be done at [[Anvil]], at a time of the Navarr's choosing.
Sadly the [[Citadel Guard]] is in great demand, partly for its unique quality, but mostly to defend the [[Urizen]] homeland from the depredations of the [[Druj]] and the [[Grendel]]. [[Urizen]] has struggled to [[Repel|repel]] not one but two invasions in recent years, one from the South and one from the East. As a result it has lost territory on two fronts, first [[Zenith]] fell to the [[Druj]], and then [[The Senate|the Senate]] ceded [[Spiral]] in a peace treaty to the [[Grendel]]. As a result the very existence of the [[Citadel Guard]] remains in doubt, as the [[Urizen]] struggle to support their army having lost so much territory.
What price might the Urizeni require in return for their aid in breaking the curse on Brocéliande?
## Endings
* The [[Eternal|eternal]] [[Kaela]] could end the curse - but requires a heavy price for doing so
One of the magicians of the Quiet Words [[Striding]], a notoriously solitary vate called Elin has apparently been negotiating with a herald of the Queen of Silence to see if she can secure her help in breaking the curse on Brocéliande. While it may seem strange to some to seek to use [[Winter magic]] to break a Winter curse that withers the seed, experienced ritual magicians understand that there is solid logic underpinning Elin's actions. According to [[Ritual Theory|Ritual theory]] ending things is one of the most powerful resonances of [[Winter magic]] - and no [[Eternal|eternal]] more strongly embodies this idea than the Dark Between The Stars. Her name is often evoked in [[Rituals|rituals]] designed to break bonds, curses and other magics. It is one thing to invoke her name - there is power in names certainly - but what if The Lady of Oblivion could be persuaded to give her aid directly?
Elin claims that she has negotiated a deal with [[Kaela]], but she warns that the [[Cost|cost]] is terrible and may be more than the Navarr are willing to bear. The Cold-Hearted is concerned with the inevitable end of things. According to [[Imperial lore]] ''"She respects those who strive to hold back the end... as long as they accept that the end is inevitable, that there is no hope."''. Her herald has confirmed that the Cold Hearted One honours the Navarr determination to [[Fight|fight]] for Brocéliande, but if she is to provide her aid in that quest, it must come at a price. In the end everything fails. Everything ends.
The price for her aid is the territory of [[Liathaven]]. The Queen of Silence does not want the Territory; she demands only that the Navarr give it up. That they acknowledge that it is gone, that their vigil there has come to end. That it has failed. 
The Navarr have struggled to defend [[Liathaven]], having endured a bloody [[War|war]] with the [[Jotun]] for control of the territory. As of Spring 381YE, only a small handful of Steadings and stridings remain in the territory and the ranging presence of the vallornspawn makes wide areas of the territory as dangerous as a [[Vallorn|vallorn]] heart. The Navarr still control West Ranging and West Wood but it is questionable what they are achieving at this point.
In return for her aid, [[Kaela]] requires the Navarr [[Assembly]] to pass the following [[Mandate|mandate]]
Mandate|mandate=Actions have consequences. If we are to save one territory, we must accept that another is lost. Our vigil in [[Liathaven]] is ended, we send {named priest} with 50 [[Liao|liao]] to urge every Navarr to accept that while [[The Vallorn|the vallorn]] of [[Liathaven]] is still our responsibility, the forests themselves are not.|assembly=Navarr Assembly
If this [[Mandate|mandate]] is passed then the majority of Navarr will accept that [[Liathaven]] is no longer a Navarr territory, now or in the future. Every Navarr [[Resource|resource]] in the territory would then be in a foreign territory. The [[Imperial treasury]] would receive no taxation from the territory but would no longer have to pay any costs up maintain it.
[[Kaela]] apparently does not require the Empire to formally cede any regions, however her herald warns that followers of [[Kaela]] in Liathaven would move swiftly to claim the two regions with the [[Assistance|assistance]] of her grim legions. She would, of course, expect to see no resistance to this action. The Lady of the Grim Host would take a dim view if the Navarr were to break their word in this matter. The Silent Queen's herald is at pains to stress that the Navarr should only enact this [[Mandate|mandate]] if they accept that their authority in Liathaven has ended and warns that the Navarr would make a powerful enemy if they took her aid and later attempted to renew their claim to the territory in any way.
In return for this terrible price Kaela would provide the Navarr with the things they need to break the curse. Elin is not specific about what form that aid might take, but she is [[Adamant|adamant]] that such a thing is within Kaela's power. She is said to be able to end anything that exists - even another [[Eternal|eternal]]. There is no doubt at all that Kaela could provide the means to end this mortal magic were she minded to do so.
Elin would like it noted that she and her [[Family|family]] were born in Liathaven and that she only joined the Quiet Words [[Striding]] after she was forced to flee when her home was destroyed by the [[Jotun]]. It would break her heart to give up all hope of every reclaiming Liathaven, she says... but she is prepared to pay that price to save Brocéliande.