---
IgnoreLinking: False
Tags: ['Recent-History', '385YE-Spring', 'Winds-of-Fortune', 'Winds-of-Magic']
Title: You can_t count on me
aliases: ["You_can't_count_on_me"]
draft: False
revision_date: 2023-06-30 09:00:36+00:00
revision_id: 102773
---

## Overview
[[The Empire]] is one of [[Magic|magic]], woven both by mortal magicians and [[Eternal|eternal]] inhabitants of the [[Realms|realms]]. While the archmages engage in formal parley, and the [[Imperial Conclave]] guides the magicians of [[The Empire|the Empire]], there is plenty of other [[Magic|magic]] that sometimes falls through the cracks. Here, we round up as many magical incidents or [[Opportunities|opportunities]] as possible.
## Mortal Magic
### Destruction of the Imperial Crown
* It has been discovered that the Imperial Crown is still interdicted
* The [[Prefect of the Conclave]] [[Will|will]] raise a [[Declaration]] of License on the Imperial Crown at the Friday session
Six years ago during the [[Spring]] Equinox, the [[Imperial Conclave]] interdicted the Imperial Crown. This was at a time before the before the significant changes to [[The Way|the way]] [[The Conclave|the Conclave]] operates, and [[The Way|the way]] its declarations work. For a while the matter was moot, as the Crown was in the possession of the [[Sumaah Republic]], but it was recently returned to the Empire and is believed to currently be in the hands of the private collectors who recovered it from the [[Thule]], where it [[Will|will]] remain until such time as a [[Throne]] is elected. 
The Crown was reconciled a year later and that might have been the end of the matter. Unfortunately, it has since come to light that the [[Declaration|declaration]] of reconciliation was raised by Mavea Wulfsdotter during an "emergency session" of the [[Conclave]] - something that did not and does not have any legal standing. Meaning that, legally, the Imperial Crown is a magic item still subject to the Conclave's [[Interdiction|interdiction]].
The [[Magistrates|magistrates]] are instructed to destroy any [[Magic Items|magic items]] that the Conclave interdicts. As such, the magistrates should seize and destroy the Imperial Crown.
Before such a tumultuous action is taken, however, the magistrates seek the guidance of the Imperial Conclave on this matter. There is some irregularity around the entire "emergency session of the Conclave" anyway, and they don't want to destroy a unique artifact such as the crown on a technicality. As such, and with the blessing of the constitutional court, the [[Prefect of the Conclave]] will raise a ''Declaration of License'' at the [[Conclave session]] on Friday [[Night|night]], proposing that the Imperial Crown no longer be interdicted.
if this declaration passes, everything will proceed normally. If the declaration does not pass, then after the end of the [[Conclave session]] the magistrates will seize the Imperial Crown and after ascertaining that they have the actual item, seek the [[Assistance|assistance]] of a [[Coven|coven]] capable of performing the [[Words of Ending]] [[Ritual|ritual]] to destroy it. Any such covens who wish to make themselves known to the magistrates can find them at the Hub (and even if the Crown ''is'' reconciled, they would be interested in hearing from covens who could destroy any other artefacts the Conclave may interdict).
### A Gift of New Talents
* A potent [[Summer]] [[Enchantment|enchantment]] has fallen over the [[Mournwold]]
* It seems to have originated with the [[Eternal|eternal]] [[Barien]]
The [[Day|day]] after the [[Winter]] Solstice, a powerful magical effect falls over the [[Mournwold]]. Originating in the Summer [[Realm|realm]], it resonates strongly with the idea of prowess. Imperial citizens are familiar with the idea that Summer enchantments can make someone formidable in battle, but that is by no means the limit of what the [[Realm|realm]]'s magic considers a heroic characteristic, In this case, the magic does little to encourage people to [[Fight|fight]] but instead grants them unexpected inspiration in crafting and the arts, especially the arts of cooking, brewing, and distilling. Examination any Marcher magicians suggests that the magic is the result of a boon bestowed by the Lord of the [[Crossroads]], although exactly where it originated is unclear.
The immediate impact is that anyone in the Mournwold who regularly cooks, crafts, or creates art experiences a [[Roleplaying effect|roleplaying effect]]: you feel an urge to take [[Pride|pride]] in the things you have made, showing them to or sharing them with others. Visitors to the Mournwold are encouraged to roleplay that they have eaten wonderful food, drunk incredible beer, seen beautiful works of art and the like. The magic will have faded by the end of the Spring Equinox.
However, there are two other knock-on effects. Firstly, any character who personal [[Resource|resource]] is in the Mournwold at the start of the Spring Equinox can completely change their character [[Skills|skills]] between event by sending an email to [mailto:plot@profounddecisions.co.uk plot@profounddecisions.co.uk] with details of which [[Skills|skills]] they wish to change. It is fine to keep some skills and change others. This represents the fact that the [[Summer magic]] encourages people in the Mournwold to find new ways to apply their natural talents, and to take up new skills.
Secondly, over the three months after the Spring Equinox, there will be a boon to trade across the [[Territory|territory]]. All these beautiful works of art, finely crafted items, excellent quality pies, ales, and spirits will be much in demand. Every [[Business]] resource in the Mournwold following the event will produce an additional 36 rings.
### Twisting Shadows
* The Civil Service has clarified some misunderstandings about the [[Custodian of the Lost]]
Quite some time ago, the [[Spire]] of Twisting Shadows in [[Zenith]] was established as a haven and hospital for the treatment of those who had been badly harmed by magical causes. Some suffered from debilitating curses which could not be alleviated, but most were the victims of [[Astronomancy]] run awry. In Spring 380YE, during the whole "[[Red star|Red Star]] Incident", the [[Spire]] of Twisting Shadows was destroyed. A stop-gap measure was introduced shortly afterwards, when the Imperial Conclave were asked to choose a replacement for the Spire, and it's valuable service to the Empire. 
Last year, during the [[Autumn]] Equinox, a [[Wintermark]] coven with the unusual name of ''the Saque Magique'' raised a [[Concord]], and were named as the new custodians of the Spire's [[Legacy|legacy]]. This is, of course, extremely irregular and flaunts all the normal rules for an [[Imperial Title]]. The Civil Service investigated, and discovered that the role of the Spire of Twisting Shadows as a place where those in need of treatment for magical maladies could find [[Sanctuary|sanctuary]] was established by the [[Imperial Senate]]. The official title is ''[[Custodian of the Lost]]'', and disentangling how it is supposed to work has proved to be quite a [[Challenge|challenge]].
The title has a responsibility to help people harmed by magical curses or by exposure to celestial forces. They receive a small payment of 2 crowns each season from bequests made by the families of former patients. They should by rights be appointed by declaration of [[Candidacy]] not [[Concord]]; going forward this will be the legal route to claiming the title.
After reviewing the records, and looking closely at recent declarations, the civil service has determined that Hammare "Meathammer" Stenning is the Custodian of the Lost. The idea that an [[Imperial Title|Imperial title]] might be held by a spire or coven is unconstitutional.
### The Quiet Hall
* The late Harad of the High Path has left a bequest for the Custodian of the Lost
* The Conclave could Endow it to the Custodian of the Lost, increasing the money they receive each season
* They could also Endow it on Harad's niece Mathoni, who agrees to give a regular bequest of [[Dragonbone|dragonbone]] to the order of the Conclave's choice
Shortly before their death last year, the [[Navarr]] [[Magician|magician]] ''Harad of the High path'' left a bequest intended for the Custodian of the Lost. Unlike most bequests, which take the form of a magic item, a [[Ritual text|ritual text]], or a supply of [[Materials|materials]], this bequest takes the form of a large [[Wayhouse]] and several surrounding buildings, all constructed by Harad and their [[Steading|steading]] in Oakyways, in [[Miaren]]. Set in an idyllic light woodland, Harad's hope was that the hall would be ideal for converting to a hospital for treatment of magical maladies. Harad was a former patient at the Spire of Twisted Shadows after he inadvertently became possessed by a potent  [[Tulpa]] of [[The Claw]]. Without the aid of the Urizeni magicians, and the Custodian of the Lost, he would surely have died without ever regaining lucidity.
As a bequest, the Quiet Hall is now available for the Imperial conclave to dispose of with a Declaration of [[Endowment]]. If it is bestowed on the Custodian of the Lost, the title will have a new, permanent base of operations from which to tend to those harmed or corrupted by exposure to powerful magic. This would create an [[Opportunity|opportunity]] for a [[Commission]] to complete transforming the [[Wayhouse|wayhouse]] into a hospital specifically for the treatment of magical ailments, and potentially provide additional benefits to the Custodian of the Lost.
While Harad has asked that the hall be given over to the Custodian of the Lost, his will does not specify that it ''must'' be. There is an alternative possibility; the gardens and woodlands that surround the Hall are apparently quite rich in Dragonbone. Obviously gathering such [[Materials|materials]] is not conducive to a healing environment, but Harad's niece Mathoni High Path has promised that if the Imperial Conclave endows the wayhouse and its grounds to her and her [[Family|family]], they will provide a bequest of 5 measures of dragonbone each season to the vaults of the [[Conclave order]] named in the declaration.
### The Seventh Mist
* The Seventh Mist have not given up their plan to establish a presence in the [[Brilliant Star]]
* They have prepared a gift of a dozen [[Weltsilver|weltsilver]] for the [[Grandmaster]] of the [[Unfettered Mind]]
The students at the Spire of the Seventh Mist have not abandoned their goal of making themselves a massive nuisance at the [[Brilliant Star]] [[Mithril]] [[Mine|mine]]. There has been no word of the [[Imperial Senate]] authorising their request for access to the mines, nor any invitation to establish a permanent research station in its depths. There ''was'' a declaration of Concord supporting their petition, raised in the Conclave by the [[Grandmaster]] of the [[Unfettered Mind]], Eliza, but it was not supported. The ''Spire of the Seventh Mist'' promised that if such a declaration was raised they would provide a bequest of Weltsilver to the Conclave to be "''delivered to the vaults of the Order most responsible for securing this support''". The support was not actually secured, but the [[Arbiter]] of the Spire has still arranged for a box containing 12 ingots of weltsilver to be delivered to Grandmsater Eliza in [[Recognition|recognition]] of their effort - the equivalent of an entire year of the bequest that would have been created if the declaration had passed.
For now, the students of the Seventh Mist are apparently considering their options, still confident that there is much to be learned by unfettered access to the peculiar radiance to be found in the depths of the [[Mithril|mithril]] [[Mine|mine]]. A letter-writing campaign has apparently been discussed in detail, with the intention of persuading other prominent citizens to support their cause.
Participation: If you have an Imperial title associated with [[The Bourse|the Bourse]], the Conclave, or the nation of [[Urizen]], or you are a scholar or practitioner of [[Day magic]], you may have received a letter from the Seventh Mist asking for your support in encouraging [[The Senate|the Senate]] to let the students establish a base of operations in the mine. The letters focus on the benefits to the [[Doyen of the Spires]] (as explain in last month's Wind of Fortune); on the potential to master or indeed reproduce the benefits of the magical [[Aura|aura]] that aids concentration; and on the importance of uncovering secrets and mysteries and learning what they mean.
### Stubborn Spirits (Conjunction)
* Greensward in the Mournwold remains haunted, and a number of particularly stubborn ghosts have congregated in the woods at ''Overton Ruins''
* These ghosts are particularly hard to communicate with. [[Exorcism]] alone proving unsuccessful, and no anchors in sight, the local monks and friars have been stumped
*The [[Monk|monk]] Mary Overton suggests a fresh approach. They have shown the ghosts kindness and comfort, sought solutions to their problems, and if this isn't good enough for them then it needs to be made clear that they're not welcome any more. She [[Calls|calls]] for a group of Marchers to enter the woods bringing some rough [[Music|music]]. She hopes that this confrontation will push the spirits to open up enough to be allowed to pass on
* A conjunction to Overton Ruins at 23:00 on Friday will allow up to 50 people to visit the area
During the Spring Equinox a conjunction of the [[Sentinel Gate]] will allow a group to travel to the area threatened by the ghosts at eleven at night on Friday. The monks have asked the [[Friar]] of Honour's Rest to organise a band of Marchers bringing rough [[Music|music]] and rites of [[Exorcism]], to lay the ghosts to rest and help further efforts to bring peace to Greensward.
[[Accessibility]]
This encounter is not intended to feature fighting and is classed [[Combat|combat]] unlikely or contained. Attempts to solve the problem with physical force have been unsuccessful. This is an [[Opportunity|opportunity]] for Marchers and exorcists to pass through [[The Sentinel|the Sentinel]] [[Gate]] for a mixture of rough music, roleplay and investigation in an unnerving, haunted atmosphere. It will take place across an area of woods a couple of minutes walk from the [[Sentinel]] Gate, on flat ground.
### Strongholds and Shrouds
* Magical [[Fortifications|fortifications]] have been raised in [[Kallavesa]], Mournwold, [[Ossium]], and [[Zenith]]
* There are shrouds over the territories of [[The Barrens|the Barrens]], [[Necropolis]], [[Madruga]], [[Sarvos]], [[Segura]], and Zenith
During the Winter Solstice, magical fortifications were raised by Imperial magicians across the Empire. The [[Dripping Echoes of the Fen]] rose in the Drownbark [[Forest]] in [[Ossium]], there to shield the [[Iron Helms]] if the [[Druj]] had decided to once again try to reclaim the land. Likewise in dank, cold [[Kallavesa]] the fog lay heavy over Kallavesa Marsh and West Marsh. In Zenith the subtle effects of the nightwoven enhance the potency of the mists that coil and wrap around the unwary. Two great walls of branch and thicket were summoned from the [[Spring Realm|Spring realm]] in Alderly and Lustri.
Magical Penumbral Veils still hang over the the [[Druj]] territory of [[The Barrens]], the [[Urizen]] territory of Zenith, and [[The League|the League]] territory of [[Sarvos]]. New shrouds have been raised over the Highborn territory of [[Necropolis]] and the [[Freeborn]] territories of [[Madruga]] and [[Segura]]. [[Rituals]] that try to divine information about, or scry into, these territories will first need to overcome the power of the veil and the only way to prematurely remove these shrouds is through use of [[Piercing Light of Revelation]]. There may be other veils in place - news of shrouds only comes from places where the Empire has a notable presence.
### Whispering Gate
Covid RestrictionsWe often have players come to the make up department for help with wounds and [[Lineage|lineage]] trappings when they're being the subject of [[Whispers through the Black Gate|Whispers Through the Black Gate]].
Due to covid restrictions around providing make up for players at this event we will not be able to assist with this. Players will have to do any make up themselves using their own supplies, in a space that is not our make up area.
* During the Spring Equinox it will be possible to perform [[Whispers through the Black Gate]] between 21:30 - 22:30
* The current [[Imperial Necromancer]] is Ser Claudia Lovelorn
[[The Black Gate]] can be opened to allow masters of [[Winter magic]] to commune with the spirits of the dead. For reasons that have never adequately been explained, the Gate can only be opened at twilight when it is neither quite day nor quite night. Imperial magicians prognosticate that this means that during the Spring Equinox the ritual can be performed between 21:30 and 22:30. This information is, of course, of particular relevance to the [[Imperial Necromancer]] given their powers and responsibilities.
## Eternal Magic
### Winter Wards
* [[Tharim]] has extended his influence into the [[Hall of Worlds]]
* Heralds of eternals who are not under amity will struggle to enter the Hall of Worlds
* This protection will last for as long as a visible image of the Bound King is displayed during every Conclave session
We recognise that keeping an image of Tharim in the Hall of Worlds all the time during [[The game|the game]] without also assigning people to guard duty (to ensure the image remained undefaced and unstolen) would be next to impossible. As such we've slightly tweaked the way the boon works, to allow for the protection Tharim offered, satisfy the Eternal's narcissistic desires, and not force anyone to have to guard a painting. Note that it doesn't have to be the same image every time - as long as it is clearly Tharim large enough to be visible from all parts of the Hall of Worlds and displayed during a Conclave session, the protection is maintained.
On behalf of the Unfettered Mind, Claudia Varkulova Remys accepted the offer from Tharim to ward the Hall of Worlds from intrusion by heralds. Using his mastery of oaths and wards, and the power of chains and binding, Tharim now makes it harder for heralds who do not possess amity to enter the Hall of Worlds freely. This ward remains in place while Tharim himself enjoys the friendship of the Conclave (while he has amity).
As part of the arrangement, Conclave needs to display an image of him - a tapestry, a portrait, a statue, an abstract piece of work that captures his essence, whatever seems most appropriate - positioned in the Hall of Worlds in a position of honour prominent enough that it is visible from every part of the Hall. The initial intention was that the image would remain in place permanently, but Tharim has since accepted that if this were the case it would be very hard indeed to ensure that the image remained undefaced. Consequently, his requirement will be maintained as long as such an image is displayed during every Conclave session: it is a matter of reminding Imperial magicians of his patronage. 
While Tharim has amity, and an image of the eternal is prominently displayed during ever Conclave session, it is impossible for heralds of eternals under enmity to enter the Hall of Worlds without an explicit invitation (just as it is in the wider Empire). Heralds of neutral eternals will not be able to take more than three steps into the Hall of Worlds without verbal permission from an Imperial magician. Heralds of eternals with amity - such as Tharim - would be unaffected as would heralds of any.eternal responding to a plenipotentiary message.
### Litany of Letters
* A [[Lashonar]] herald is organising an exchange of letters over the coming season.
* Litany invites any whose faith is not accepted in their home culture to participate.
* Letters can be sent by writing them on a single piece of paper with a drawing of a bird on it, taking the letter to a [[Regio|regio]] and casting [[Operate Portal]]. To ensure a reply, letters must include the sender's full name.
Shortly before the Spring Equinox, a bird not unlike a starling, but the size of a child begins to pester Civil Service members with little regard for queues, waiting lists or booking an [[Appointment|appointment]]. When plied with seedcake and the entire attention of those she wishes speak to, she introduces herself as ''Litany, Listkeeper for the Speaker in Dreams''.
She invites citizens of the Empire to participate in an exchange of letters. The Keeper of the Gates of [[Wisdom]] is mournful that across nations voices keep silent for fear of the consequences of speaking words fuelled with [[Conviction|conviction]] and faith. Litany says she has come to offer the Empire, and nations both nearby and oh so distant, an outlet for such words.
In plainer terms, this letter exchange is for any whose religious beliefs are not accepted in their home country, or who find themselves drawn to such beliefs. Litany invites such people to write a letter which she will deliver to an individual knowledgeable about the religion living in a nation where their faith is accepted. The letters should not be addressed to a specific individual - the little bird fluffs up her feathers and declares herself "an artist of courier arts, and no simple messenger" when such suggestions are made. She assures all who take part that she will find the best recipient for their letter.
Letters for the exchange should be a single piece of paper, with a picture of a bird drawn somewhere on them. To submit the letter, participants should bring the letter to the [[Anvil]] [[Regio|regio]] and cast [[Operate Portal]] on it. In order to ensure a reply can be delivered, she emphasises that all letters must include the sender's full name. Of course, there may well be those who wish to participate in this exchange, but do not have the ability to cast magic. Litany encourages the mages of the Empire to honour any requests to send through the portal on another's behalf.
In addition, Litany wishes for the Empire's great priests to know that she has made a delivery of letters involved in this exchange to the current [[Archmage of Night]]. These letters come from across the world, penned by those who are curious about aspects of the Way or already followers themselves, but who cannot find out more in their own nation. She trusts that the [[Archmage]] will know the individuals best placed to reply to these letters. Such replies can be sent in the same way as the other letters: they must be written with a clear recipient and sender, on a single piece of paper with a picture of a bird drawn on it, and can be sent by taking them to the [[Anvil]] regio and casting Operate Portal.
### Lord of the [[Crossroads]]
* At the Spring Equinox the heralds of [[Barien]] will be holding court at House du Lac in [[Dawn]]
* They will be in Anvil between 19:00 and 21:00 on Friday
* They have [[Challenge|challenge]] scrolls for Tono Shartha [[Riqueza]], Eadric of House du Froste and Dame Aurum de Castellan
* The heralds are available to speak to the following people in particular; Tarik of Ashenhall, Aldwyn of House de Rondell, Adón i Martán i [[Erigo]] and the House of the Guilded Vine.
* Anyone who wishes to ask questions of the heralds is welcome to do so
The Empire continues to show it’s appreciated for the challenges presented by the Master of the Dragonforge; and so, as the time comes near for another summit, a number of winged messengers flutter into the hands of Imperial citizens knee deep in their attempts to triumph over adversity and earn the favour of the Iron Duke.
This summit Revel and his associates summon Tono Shartha [[Riqueza]], Eadric of House du Froste and Dame Aurum de Castellan to all receive their challenge scrolls and begin their noble quests. As usual, the Iron Duke’s heralds have paid for the use of a space in Anvil and will be enjoying some ''Dawnish hospitality at House du Lac'', where they can be found on ‘’’Friday evening between the hours of 7 and 9’’’. Anyone who has formal business with the heralds, or simply wishes to enquire about Barien, the [[Summer Realm|Summer realm]] or challenging the Lord of the Crossroads is welcome to come do so.
Revel has sent a number of letters out before the event and so the heralds are around to answer any questions people might have about them - this particularly applies to the House of the Guilded Vine and Adón i Martán i [[Erigo]], but their attendance is not required if everything is in order. The heralds ‘’would’’ on the other hand like to speak to both Tarik of Ashenhall and Aldwyn of House de Rondell about their ongoing quests. If for whatever reason anyone who needs to speak to the heralds cannot do so on Friday, they will return on Sunday after the battle to tidy up loose ends.
### [[Sorin]]'s Chastising Touch
* The Whelpmaster is pleased with the tribute gathered during the Winter parley
* He intends to provide a ritual scroll of use to Imperial magicians as a boon
During the Winter Solstice, the Summer [[Archmage]] hosted a parley with representatives of [[Sorin]]. The meeting apparently went well, and during it Imperial magicians delivered extensive tribute to the ''Tomb King'' especially in the form of the Dragonbone the eternal is known to favour. The respect this shows has led the ''Hunger-Crow'' to offer a gracious boon - a ritual scroll containing the details of a rite that draws on his power and will perhaps aid Imperial magicians to better understand his philosophy of gaining strength and greater understanding through experiencing suffering. The scroll will be delivered to the Winter Archmage. They may keep it, deliver it to whomever  convinces them they are worthy, share it with the Empire, or gift it to Urizen. What they choose to do with it is up to them - that is the nature of a gift after all.
### Summer's Dawning
* The [[Eastern Sky]] are on their way to becoming a Favoured army
* The ''[[General]] of the [[Eastern Sky]]'' is Dame Aurum de Castellan
The plan to transform the Eastern Sky,first proposed in Autumn last year by ''Lady Nimue de Moraine'', gathers pace. After much discussion, the enchantresses of [[Dawn]] have apparently invited five eternals of the Summer realm to stand as patrons for the army, transforming it from a resourceful army to a favoured army. The Summer Lion, Queen of Ice and Darkness, Lord of Summer Stars, Knight of the Crossroads, and Regent of the Eternal Sea are ready to offer their support to the army - provided the people of Dawn can meet the requirements for that support.
The situation with the five eternals appears to be as follows:
* [[Eleonaris]] has been honoured with a construction of a statue at the Golden Causeway in [[Semmerholm]], and will enthusiastically provide her favour to the army. 
* At the Winter Solstice, the ''Cabal of Nevezamzer'' invoked [[Challenge the Iron Duke]] for Dame Autum de Castellan, [[General]] of the army, and when the resultant challenge is completed, Barien will happily support the Eastern Sky. 
* [[Rhianos]] can still be honoured with a statue, but has also mentioned that there might be other options to secure his boon.
* [[Meraud]] is also sending a herald to the parley [[Rhianos]] has requested; the Golden Magician indicates that if some of the enchantresses of Dawn attend that parley they can speak with his apprentice about what they might do ''other'' than build a beautiful statue at Weaving. Also, if possible, could they make sure nothing ''happens'' to the apprentice, given they are not formally part of the parley? 
* Finally, [[Cathan Canae]] is said to be intrigued to be invited to aid the army, and while she could be encouraged to do so with a statue build in Dawnguard, there is another opportunity.
One thing that all the eternals have made clear is that they are prepared to provide ''patronage'' to the army if they are asked. The ''boons'' they provide - in the form of the special [[Army orders|army orders]] - will only be available once their challenges are met or the statues honouring them are completed. There is no need to wait until all five challenges are completed to perform the official ceremony to receive the favours which can still take place at the Summer Solstice as scheduled.
### Splendour of the White Bear
* Dawn can secure [[Cathan Canae]]'s favour by urging their armies to commit entirely when they take part in a defensive action
Cathan Canae endures, and expects others to do the same. A statue built in a [[Liberated|liberated]] Dawnguard would certainly win her support, but there is an alternative. According to one of her heralds, sent to speak with the [[Troubadours|troubadours]] of Dawn, she would be prepared to grant her favour to the Eastern Sky if the people of Dawn were to align themselves more strongly with her preferred methods of waging [[War|war]]. The troubadours have put their heads together and with the aid of the Civil Service proposed the following [[Mandate]] that would honour the Queen of Ice and Darkness, arguably better than any statue,
Mandate|mandate=A great life leaves a legend, and the soul cannot be armoured. When we stand against our enemies, We should do so as an unbreakable wall of ice and [[Adamant|adamant]]. We send (named priest) with 75 doses of [[Liao|liao]] to spread tales of glorious defence and urge all those who [[Fight|fight]] beneath our banners to become as immovable as [[The Mountain|the mountain]].|assembly=Dawn National [[Assembly]] 
If this [[Mandate|mandate]] is enacted, then going forward no General of Dawn will be able to issue the Give Ground or Solid Defence orders; if they do they will instead default to Heroic Stand. They would still be able to issue special defensive orders that arise from qualities or opportunities but in the normal course of a campaign they will attempt to give as little ground as possible when they defend a territory. If this mandate is enacted, Cathan Canae will grant her boon to the Eastern Sky - removing the effects at a later date are likely to incur the eternals displeasure.
### [[Surut]] and the Archmage
* The eternal Surut has charged folk with tormenting Archmage Ematius
* 'An agent of Surut will visit the Imperial Regio at 19:30 on Saturday to hear from those who undertook this challenge
A year ago, the Burnt Prince apparently made an agreement with some Imperial citizens to torment Ematius, the Winter Archmage. The details of this agreement are not commonly known. Surut intends to send one of his agents to the Imperial Regio at half-past-seven on Saturday evening to hear from any Imperial citizen who has "made the Archmage's life more miserable." Depending on their success, and how much they can impress Surut's agent with their tales, there will apparently be boons. From the cagey way Surut's herald delivers information about this meeting, it seems likely that the agent is ''not'' a herald. The only thing Surut will confirm is that it will be someone (or something) "well versed in torment."
### A Game of Strategy
* [[Zakalwe]], the Master Strategist, has arranged a game to test the strategic skills of Dawn
* A team of six is invited to attend the Hall of Worlds at 21:00 on Friday
* The team will be met by Agon and taken to a chamber
Following on from his invitation at the Winter Solstice, [[Zakalwe]] has arranged a game for the Dawnish strategists that his servant ''Agon'' has already spoken with. A team of six will need to [[Assembly|assembly]] at the Hall of Worlds for nine in the evening on the Friday of the summit. From there, Zakalwe's trusted lieutenant will escort them to a chamber where they may attempt a challenge based on one of [[The Military|the military]] campaigns in the reign of [[Empress Brannan]].
## Further Reading
* [[Have you seen me lately]] - Plenipotentiary and parley details
* [[Rain king]] - opportunities and boons offered by Lord Rain
* [[Children in bloom]] - details of the powerful [[Hallow of the Green World]] cast over the Empire
* [[Colourblind]] - The magical blight in Madruga, and efforts to [[Combat|combat]] it