---
IgnoreLinking: False
Tags: ['Gazetteer']
Title: Great Forest of Peytaht
aliases: ['Great_Forest_of_Peytaht']
draft: False
revision_date: 2024-01-17 19:49:56+00:00
revision_id: 107282
---

## Overview
The [[Great Forest of Peytaht]] covers Broken Ride in [[Reikos]], and a significant part of [[The Barrens]]: Heart of Peytaht itself of course, but also the Untrod Groves and the Bleaks. Historically it covered much of the area now occupied by [[The Empire|the Empire]] as well - the orcs of the Great [[Forest]] claim it once reached as far north as the mountains of [[Otkodov]], and as far west as the kingdoms of the [[Jotun]]. The reforestation of [[Reikos]] has potentially expanded the Great [[Forest]]; it is not clear if the new growth should be considered part of Peytaht or not.
The [[Forest|forest]] is known to be rich in [[Weirwood|weirwood]] - the [[Great Forest at Reikos]] provides a significant bounty of this valuable material to [[The Empire|the Empire]], and its counterpart on the northern side of the [[Forest|forest]] - the Eaves of Peytaht - does the same for the [[Druj]]. In the past, the orcs of the Great [[Forest]] claimed the Eaves as some sort of sacred place; they were very keen that the recent treaty contain provision for its return to them should [[The Barrens|the Barrens]] be [[Liberated|liberated]].
The forest as a whole has a grim reputation. Reports stretch back hundreds of years of people entering the forest and disappearing - more than can be explained by misadventure or the dangers of the wilderness. Indeed, no major Imperial force has passed through the forest since the disappearance of the Lost Company - a force of Highborn that attempted to move through the forest fifty years after the founding of [[The Empire|the Empire]]. Until the [[Druj]] came through the forest to attack [[Reikos]] in 367YE it was widely considered impossible to cross between [[The Barrens|the Barrens]] and [[Reikos]] via the forest. An ambitious - potentially even rash - plan was proposed in 379YE that might have allowed the [[Hounds of Glory]] and [[Eastern Sky]] to pass through Peytaht as part of the campaign against the [[Druj]]. The plan was never tested, and would have required significant amounts of [[Liao]] and the support of the [[Imperial Synod]] - but if an army were desperate enough it might be possible to implement this plan or a similar one. The outcome is difficult to predict however.
One group that almost certainly knows more about the [[Great Forest of Peytaht]] are the orcs of the Great Forest, currently residing in the [[Navarr]] [[Territory]] of [[Therunin]].
## Imperial Research
What follows is an excerpt from a [[Historical research]] document commissioned by the [[Dredgemaster of Feverwater]] in 379YE.
### Discussion of the [[Great Forest of Peytaht]]
There are very few imperial records concerning the [[Great Forest of Peytaht]]. When [[The Empire|the Empire]] writes of the [[Great Forest of Peytaht]], we mean that stretch of woodland that covers the hills of northern-eastern [[Reikos]] and the south-western Barrens. The [[Great Forest at Reikos]] - the [[Weirwood|weirwood]] groves, and the section of forest that the Highborn harvest for lumber - is only a fraction of the area covered by the Great Forest of Peytaht. 
The forest extends north into [[The Barrens|the Barrens]], where it covers many times more acres of land than the small area that is part of Reikos. It merges with [[Vallorn|vallorn]] haunted [[Brocéliande]] to the west, and with upper [[Therunin]] in the east. The forests of southern [[Semmerholm]], [[Astolat]], and [[Weirwater]] are the Dawnish remnants of the same contiguous forest. The deciduous trees of [[Miaren]] were once part of Peytaht, and when [[Temeschwar]] was built it was with ancient lumber harvested from trees that were once part of that same great forest.
Today the land covered by the actual Forest of Peytaht is much reduced… but it is still nonetheless impressive.
The Highborn woodlands are relatively safe - or at least they were before the [[Druj]] braved the heart of the great forest and launched their surprise invasion. The further north one travels, however, the more eerie and inhospitable the woods become. Beyond the northern borders of Reikos, the forest is largely untouched and there are many local tales of travellers or foolhardy entrepreneurs disappearing without a trace after pushing too far into unknown areas. 
Some of those tales are recounted in the form of journals and other documents. There are many similarities – the travellers become aware of a presence watching them, along with a growing certainty that they are not welcome. Survivors of parties travelling together talk of disappearances – a man steps behind a tree to relieve himself and never returns. A woman steps out of the circle of firelight to investigate a noise and is never seen again.
In 57YE, a year after the conquest of Reikos, the Highborn sent an expedition [[Into the woods|into the woods]], intending to uncover and dispel the mysteries at its heart. One hundred armed soldiers, cataphracts and [[Unconquered]] supported by a [[Coven]] of [[Magisters|magisters]]... who simply vanished without a trace. The Lost Company are the subject of speculation and myth to this [[Day|day]].
Even the orcs avoided Peytaht. The forest was widely believed to be a secure border against the [[Druj]]… until 367YE when a significant Druj military force pushed through the woodlands into northern Reikos. Speculation is that they achieved this feat only with the [[Assistance|assistance]] of the so-called Orcs of the Great Forest of Barrens orcs, at that time subjects of the Druj nation.
It is interesting that after the rebellion of the [[Great Forest Orcs]], as part of the revolt that [[Cost|cost]] the Druj control of [[The Barrens|the Barrens]], the Druj armies attempted to break out of Reikos not to the north but through [[Therunin]] – and again it is pure speculation but it appeared that the Druj preferred the risk of fighting an unknown number of savage [[Navarr]] defenders to the threat of travelling through the forests they had once navigated with apparent ease.
When the Druj did force their way through the Great Forest there are some discrepancies in the estimation of their forces in Reikos and what was encountered in [[Holberg]]. Even allowing for their skirmishes with the Barrens orcs en-route, it seems that the Druj lost a non-insignificant number of warriors between the isolated Highborn territory and [[The League]] city. Some even theorise that this may have helped contribute to the final defeat of the Druj forces.
What, then, has the power to both make the Druj afraid and – when they do master their fear and risk the woodlands – inflict significant [[Casualties|casualties]] on a cruel [[Barbarian|barbarian]] military force? Sadly, we have almost no idea.
There is certainly something there, and all the evidence suggests it is not a [[Vallorn]]. Indeed, there is some speculation given the position of the Great Forest between [[Brocéliande]] and [[Therunin]] that Peytaht might represent something more – something resilient enough to actually defeat efforts of [[The Vallorn|the vallorn]] to spread into and taint the heartland of that ancient forest – despite the ease with which [[The Vallorn|the vallorn]] devoured the entirety of the [[Navarr Territories|Navarr territories]] when disaster overtook Terunael.
If this is the case, then a key to understanding [[The Vallorn|the vallorn]] – or something that might be turned into a a weapon against it – could lie under the eaves of the Peytaht, in the south-western Barrens. Unfortunately, whatever it is that inhabits that region of woodlands appears no more predisposed to peaceful contact with humans, or even from most orcs, than the green horror that destroyed Terunael.
As part of our research, we have collected several first-hand documents detailing experiences in Peytaht. They give some example of the fear, madness, and death that seems to attend efforts to force through Peytaht.
Yet it remains a fact that no significant Imperial military force has ever tried to pass through this dangerous region – they have invariably [[Gone|gone]] round on the rare occasions when [[The Empire|the Empire]] has tried pushing into the Barrens or [[The Mallum]] from places other than Dawnguard. Perhaps a suitably protected army might be able to uncover more, were they to risk the Peytaht – there were some projections that the Dawnish armies in Reikos might be able to forge through into Murderdale to attack the Barrens forces with the use of sufficient [[Liao]] to provide potent virtuous auras to the soldiers.
It is unsatisfying to admit, but the Great Forest essentially represents an enigma and one to which we have been unable to find any conclusive answer.
## Further Reading
* [[Great Forest Orcs]]
* Heart of Peytaht
* [[Great Forest at Reikos]]