---
IgnoreLinking: False
Tags: ['Gazetteer', 'Imperial-Territory']
Title: Kahraman
draft: False
revision_date: 2024-01-30 11:25:13+00:00
revision_id: 107404
---

stub
## Overview
The mountains of [[Kahraman]] rise from the great grasslands of [[Segura]] to the south and the [[Mournwold]] to the north, presenting a treacherous land of broken rock and barren mountainside. Fast-flowing streams spill down deep jagged-edged valleys. There is precious little in [[The Way|the way]] of vegetation, only scrub that clings to the slopes. However, there are riches in the mountains: here, the [[Freeborn]] find precious metals and minerals, often as sediment lying in the streambeds. Scattered settlements shelter in the valleys, with the remains of stone fortresses and watchtowers decaying on the heights above, remnants from the days before [[The Empire|the Empire]] when the Freeborn warred with [[The Marches|the Marches]].
To the south of the mountains of [[Kahraman]] lie sweeping grass plains, a seemingly desolate [[Landscape|landscape]] dotted with strange rock formations shaped by the wind. Here the Freeborn graze the bulk of their herds of goats and sheep. The wind from the west, the Delés, is constant and bitingly cold at [[Night|night]]. As a result, for shelter, Freeborn communities settle in bowl-shaped depressions cut from the earth, their tents sunk below the plains' surface.
The families of [[Kahraman]] have a somewhat undeserved reputation for being quarrelsome; as a response, the Freeborn established the post of [[Dhomiro of the Cinnabar Hills]] to help mediate their disputes and to encourage trade between the sometimes quite isolated settlements here. The [[Dhomiro]] is an [[Imperial Title]] that is appointed each [[Autumn]] by Freeborn citizens who control fleets.
## Recent [[History]]
Since [[Liathaven]] and the [[Mournwold]] fell into the hands of the [[Jotun]] [[Barbarians|barbarians]], there has been an increase in raids by orcs from the north. The Freeborn maintained vital trade routes and communications with the [[Navarr]] holdouts in Beacon Point, until the [[Jotun]] orcs forced the [[Navarr]] into [[Kahraman]] in late 379YE. By the [[Spring|spring]] of the new year, the [[Jotun]] had pushed deep into [[Kahraman]], eventually making it [[All the way|all the way]] to the [[Great Mine of Briante]] until they were repelled by [[Imperial armies]]. After several months of fighting, the barbarians were chased back into the forests of [[Liathaven]] and by the [[Winter]] Solstice 380YE was Kahraman was free from [[Barbarian|barbarian]] occupation. However, the [[Jotun]] left a warning on the walls of Damata, saying that they had come once and would come again.
A second serious invasion began in 384YE, this time spearheaded by the Lasambrian [[Jotun]]. Rather than echoing previous invasions, which went straight for the rich resources of Serra Damata and Serra Briante, they focused their efforts on the plains of Gambit and Jade Range. After significant early gains, they eventually faced the might of all three [[Navarr]] armies and both Freeborn armies. Their attempt to take capture Braydon's Jasse, and cut the mountains off from the rest of [[The Empire|the Empire]], were blocked and by the end of the year they were once again driven out. It wasn't long before yet another offensive began, this time emerging from Liaven's Glen straight into Braydon's Jasse. The Jotun captured Fort Braydon for the first time in recorded history, dealing significant damage to the fort in the process. The Imperial counter-attack was quick to push them back out, but the short but fierce fighting saw the walls of that ancient bulwark finally collapse.
## Major Features
### The Gilded Peak
[[The Mountain|The mountain]] that separates the valley of Briante and the ancient stronghold of Fort Braydon bears a most peculiar summit, which at sunset or [[Dawn|dawn]] gleams as if the rock is made of gold. [[The Mountain|The mountain]] is treacherous, and no-one has yet achieved it, although many have tried. “Climbing the Gilded Peak” has passed into local parlance as a phrase meaning “a fool’s dream”.
### The Northern Peaks
The mountains along the northern borders of Kahraman are the home of several vicious clans of orc barbarians. Descended from [[Mine|mine]] working slaves who revolted during [[The Orc Rebellion|the orc rebellion]], they refused all overtures from [[The Empire|the Empire]] and expressed no interest in becoming [[Imperial Orcs|Imperial orcs]]. Rather they created out-of-the-way strongholds for themselves and proceeded to prey on travellers and poorly defended caravans. Most of their spite was reserved for [[Traders|traders]] trying to cross the mountains to [[Liathaven]], but in the years since they went rogue they have launched more than one concerted attack on a mining camp or northern village. [[The Empire]] would very much like to deal with them permanently, but they are like weeds - when one group is put down, another springs up a few years later to claim its [[Territory|territory]].
### The [[Great Mine of Briante]]
The Great [[Mine]] of Briante is a [[Bourse]] [[Resource|resource]] located in Briante. Custodianship of the Great [[Mine]] is an [[Imperial Title]] that brings with it a Seat on the [[Imperial Bourse]]. It produces 22 Imperial wains of [[Mithril|mithril]] every season. Control is allocated to any Imperial citizen by open auction during the Autumn Equinox.
### The [[Damatian Cliffs]]
The [[Damatian Cliffs]] are a Bourse resource located in Damata. Custodianship of the Cliffs is an [[Imperial Title]] that brings with it a Seat on the [[Imperial Bourse]]. It produces 27 Imperial wains of [[White granite|white granite]] every season. Control is allocated to any Imperial citizen by open auction during the [[Summer]] Solstice.
### Fort Braydon (destroyed)
Fort Braydon was very old, built in the early decades of [[The Brass Coast]] to protect the miners of Braydon's Jasse from the [[Barbarian|barbarian]] orcs who once dominated Kahraman. Long before the reign of [[Empress Teleri]] brought the [[Mournwold]] under Imperial control and finally drove the orcs west into the hills, it watched over them and over the passes to the north. Several times in the centuries since there were [[Calls|calls]] for the [[Fortification]] to be decommissioned - [[Calls|calls]] the Freeborn defeated each time they were raised. While the castle itself protected a "safe" border, the garrison has long served to police the northern hills of the territory against bandits and the incursions of the western orcs. When the [[Mournwold]] fell, the fort helped to [[Drive back|drive back]] more than one attempt to extend Jotun dominion south, and supported efforts to keep the Lasambrians out of the rich hills. The continuing [[War|war]] with the Jotun secured Fort Braydon's important role in protecting the cinnabar hills from western aggression. That aggression came to a head in a recent invasion 385YE where the Jotun briefly held Fort Braydon, and sadly the walls of the ancient [[Fortification|fortification]] were torn down in the savage Imperial counter-attack a season later.
## Regions
### Braydon's Jasse
* Quality: Hills
The valleys of Braydon's Jasse are home to many small mining villages and the isolated homes of Freeborn families who value their privacy. The region is home to some of the oldest settlements in the territory - the mines here were run by Freeborn families for centuries before the formation of [[The Empire|the Empire]] when most of the land here was in the hands of the [[Barbarian|barbarian]] orcs. The most famous feature of the Jasse was Fort Braydon, an old fortress dating from the days before the Marchers, when [[The Brass Coast|the Brass Coast]] kept watch against the barbarians and the [[Feni]]. The recent [[Barbarian|barbarian]] incursions led to the rebuilding of its walls and strengthening of its defences, but after many centuries of guarding the region it is no more. (OOC Note: Fort Braydon was a rank 1 [[Fortification|fortification]]).
### Gambit
Wide, arid plains characterise Gambit - named because every venture begun there is said to run a little extra risk but offer a little extra profit. Sunk into a natural depression in the rock-slopes that mark the southern limits of the Kahraman mountains is Rojota. Surrounded by goat-farming land, it is a hard place to scratch a living. Its fame is for a peculiar method of foretelling the future. Precious - for [[The Brass Coast|the Brass Coast]] - scraps of wood are left to weather in dust blown by the Delés and interpreted by [[Sutannir]] skilled in such matters. There are more trees in western Gambit than in any other part of [[The Brass Coast|the Brass Coast]] - gnarled red-wood trees believed to be distant cousins of the beggarwood tree, adapted to survive in the arid grasslands of Kahraman and the Lasambrian Hills. The wood is unsuitable for construction or shipbuilding, and apparently good for little save [[Burning|burning]]. As a whole, the sparse woodlands are referred to as the Sand [[Forest]] due to [[The Way|the way]] the trees greedily trap every drop of water in their roots and leave the land even drier.
### Jade Range
The Jade Range takes its names both from the rich deposits of [[Tempest jade|tempest jade]] in the hills and from the dark, rich colouration of its grassy plains, kept lush by great underground aquifers. The grazing here is good, nearly a match for that of the Great Grasses in [[Madruga]] or the Sobral Grasses of [[Segura]]. The plains are spotted with settlements, the largest of which is probably Nestor’s Bounty, named for a [[Scrivener|scrivener]] who made a vast fortune writing contracts for the sale of rich claims found in the hills. As with Briante, this town is well-known for its mines, particularly precious stones and tempest jade.
### Serra Briante
* Quality: Hills
This hilly region is named for the Briante valley and the town that shares the same name. Surrounded by rich open-cast mines, Briante is now home for a number of displaced [[Navarr]] [[Steadings]], pushed out of [[Liathaven]] by the Jotun incursions. The town still maintains the [[Navarr]] beacons that once allowed the inhabitants of southern [[Liathaven]] to maintain simple communication with their northern neighbours - as well as provide early warnings of potential attacks from western lands outside the Empire. The [[Great Mine of Briante]] - one of the great wonders of the Empire and perhaps even the world - lies at the heart of the valley.
### Serra Damata
* Quality: Hills
One of the most important settlements in the Serra Damata is the town from which the region took its name - Damata. For centuries a trading centre for the surrounding peaks, where rich deposits of [[Orichalcum|orichalcum]] are still found, Damata was famed for its walls, every metre of which is covered in finely calligraphed script, recording stories that have been told amongst the Freeborn for generations. One [[Day|day]], they say, there [[Will|will]] be no more room for writing, and then the town [[Will|will]] perish, its life written. Until the Jotun invaded, Dawnish [[Troubadours|troubadours]] and Winterfolk scops alike travelled for some distance to learn the stories on the walls of Damata. The [[Damatian Cliffs]], a valuable [[Imperial Bourse]] seat, are found near Damata. 
In Winter 379YE, a force of [[Barbarian|barbarian]] orcs swept down out of Liathaven, conquered Damata, and then moved on to secure the [[Damatian Cliffs]]. After the region was reclaimed by Imperial armies at the end of 380YE it was found that the town had weathered its occupation without the walls sustaining any damage. The Jotun had in fact added to the walls, carving an ominous warning that said "We came. We shall come again".
One of the most noteworthy mountain peaks in Serra Damata was the Red Pinnacle that straddled the western border with both Liathaven and Reinos. In Summer 385YE Imperial [[Heroes|heroes]] forever changed the face of the [[Landscape|landscape]] by ripping [[The Mountain|the mountain]] peak asunder with the aid of heralds of [[Estavus]]. In doing so, new and unclaimed sources of bounteous mineral wealth were discovered in the ruined crevices and depths that remain of the Red Pinnacle.
[[Senate]] Elections|Senator_for_Kahraman|Territory=Kahraman|Season=Autumn
## Strategic Considerations
* The Kahraman Peaks impede movement between Liathaven and Kahraman
* The destruction of the Red Pinnacle blocks movement into and out of Liathaven and Reinos from northern Kahraman
Strategic Considerations|Kahraman The Kahraman Peaks make it difficult for armies to pass between Kahraman and Liathaven. Armies can move between Braydon's Jasse and Liaven's Glen with relative ease, but elsewhere things are not so straightforward. Armies cannot move between Serra Briante and Liathaven at all, for example, and the only way for an army to move between Serra Damata and Beacon's Point is through the Redgate Pass. A second pass exists between Serra Damata and Liath's Heart, but due to the presence of [[The Vallorn|the vallorn]] on the northern side it is of minimal use to Imperial forces.
During the Summer Solstice 384YE, the Lasambrian Jotun enacted a plan detailed in the One tree at a time Wind of [[War]]. As a result, travel through Serra Damata, Serra Briante, and Braydon's Jasse has been crippled. Campaign armies now struggle to move freely between Braydon's Jasse and Serra Briante, or between Serra Briante and Serra Damata. This makes it impossible to attack more than one of these regions in the same season. However has also dealt a devastating blow to the effectiveness of Fort Braydon - and to any other [[Fortifications|fortifications]] in the surrounding area. Any [[Fortification|fortification]] in Serra Briante, Serra Damata or Braydon's Jasse [[Will|will]] be able to defend the region it is in, but [[Will|will]] not provide any benefit in either of the other two regions. This situation [[Will|will]] persist until the Empire is able to commit the time and money needed to repair the roads and bridges - something that will be difficult to do while battle still rages in the territory.
As part of a deal with the House of Fire and Flame, heralds from the city of [[Estavus]] in the Autumn [[Realm]], the Red Pinnacle mountain was brought down by the Empire during the Summer Solstice 385YE. This collapse blocked the Redgate Pass, and caused extensive additional damage. It is not possible for campaign armies to enter or leave Serra Damata. Armies can still move west from Gambit but access to the mountains, and the [[Damatian Cliffs]], from Jotun territory is currently blocked.
## OOC Notes
* As of the start of the Summer Equinox 385YE, all the regions of Kahraman are in Freeborn (and thus Imperial) hands
* Fort Braydon was a rank 1 [[Fortification]], and as of the start of the Summer Equinox 385YE it is destroyed.
Brass Coast Links
category:[[The Brass Coast]]