---
IgnoreLinking: False
Tags: ['Gazetteer', 'Imperial-Territory', 'Wintermark']
Title: Kallavesa
draft: False
revision_date: 2023-08-30 14:54:36+00:00
revision_id: 105152
---

## Overview
This is the ancestral home of the [[Kallavesi]], a land of cold stagnant bogs. The land changes through the seasons, but always has a feeling of brooding stillness. In the warmer months it is a boggy marsh cut through with streams and fjords. In the [[Winter|winter]] the waterways freeze over and the whole land is covered with frost and snow. The marsh serves as the national graveyard and this is a place of ancient secrets and mysticism. 
It is a mournful land, but a beautiful one. Thanes' halls are traditionally constructed entirely from wood here and those built in marshy areas are raised up on stilts. Many halls in [[Kallavesa]] are built around sacred places or places with a magical reputation. There are not believed to be any troll ruins in [[Kallavesa]]; while stories occasionally speak of shattered halls buried beneath the Rundhal Marsh, these tales are considered largely fanciful or allegorical.
Parts of [[Kallavesa]], especially the West Marsh have a reputation for being haunted. Not only are the marshes where the honoured dead of [[Wintermark]] are interred, they have also seen regular [[Battles|battles]] through the ages. Several vicious battlefields lie drowned beneath the boggy marshes; the [[Jotun]] have raided across the narrow sea from Kalsea since time-out-of-mind; in pre-Imperial centuries there were irregular border skirmishes across the southern borders - first with with the orcs who dwelt where [[Bregasland]] and [[Mitwold]] lie today, later with Marchers who displaced them. Orc and human dead alike lie in the deep pools of the western and southern marshes, and they do not always lie still.
[[Kallavesa]] is rich with many fine [[Herb|herb]] gardens. Perhaps as a consequence of the many battlefields buried beneath the marshes, the [[Territory|territory]] is known for the quality of the [[Bladeroot]] that grows here. The [[Kallavesi]] themselves are acknowledged experts in the use of [[Herbs|herbs]] - the [[Infusions of Feathers]] were first developed here in the Wittal Groves and later shared with apothecaries from across [[The Empire|the Empire]].
The [[Senator]] for [[Kallavesa]] is appointed by the [[Kallavesi]] during the Winter Solstice, and is almost invariably of [[Kallavesi]] tradition.
## Recent [[History]]
In the Winter of 370YE the [[Jotun]] invaded in force, taking West Marsh and pushing into Skymark. Before they could consolidate their hold, however a joint campaign by [[Wintermark]] and Marcher armies drove them out under the leadership of a young [[Skarsind]] [[General|general]] named Britta. Without her excellent leadership and inspirational presence is it widely believed that both [[Sermersuaq]] and Kallavesa would have been lost to the orcs. Further attempts at invasion were stymied by the re-vitalised and re-equipped armies left behind to guard against another attack. 
The [[Jotun]] returned in [[Spring]] 380YE, again attempting to conquer the western marshes. This time their invasion was stymied by magical protections conjured by the magicians of [[Wintermark]]. They doggedly persisted in their invasion until [[Autumn]] when they unceremoniously abandoned their plans to try and take the West Marsh having made no appreciable headway in nine months.
The marshes of Kallavesa are the final resting place of the great [[Heroes|heroes]] and heroines of [[Wintermark]]. Alone of all previous Emperors and Empresses, [[Empress Britta]] was interred in the marshes rather than resting at [[Necropolis]]. The Highborn have built a shrine and appointed a [[Guardian]] of Britta's Shrine, but the body itself (or as much of it as was recovered from the [[Thule]]) rests beneath the waters of Kallavesa.
## Major Features
### Rundhal
Once the capital of Kallavesa, in Rundhal where [[Mystics|mystics]] sent dreams to the [[Steinr]], and where the wise met to choose the monarch of [[Wintermark]] before [[The Empire|the Empire]]. It is still a place of utmost importance to those who follow the [[Kallavesi]] traditions, and is where many of the oldest traditions are passed on. Scops come to the round hall to learn the stories and songs that tell their nation who they are and inspire [[Heroes|heroes]] across all of Empire.
### The Sovevann
The weed-choked waters at the heart of Kallavesa, boundaries and waterways shifting and reform all the time, as small islands of floating reeds drift on unpredictable currents. Attempts to build permanent structures here are stymied by chaotic nature of the floating islands and the presence of several large colonies of [[Marshwalkers]] who [[Will|will]] not tolerate the disruption of their boggy territory.
### The Pilgrim's Trail
Following the internment of [[Empress Britta]] in the Sovevann, an [[Opportunity]] to help pilgrims visit the sacred waters of Kallavesa to honour the [[Heroes|heroes]] of Wintermark. [[Senator]] Olle Markusson commissioned the Pilgrim's Trails during the Winter Solstice 379YE, and they were completed shortly before the [[Summer]] Solstice 380YE. The Trail consists of many roads and bridges built to connect the major religious sites across Kallavesa to each other, and to the rest of [[The Empire|the Empire]]
[[The Senate]] decision to construct the Trails was enthusiastically supported by many of the Winterfolk. Wry comments were made concerning how people who thought the "[[Anvil]] mud" would react to what the people of Kallavesa call "dry land". The completion of the project became a point of [[Pride|pride]], and donations came in from across Wintermark.
Surveyors planned an optimal route through the marshes, intended to minimise the number of bridges required while at the same time ensuring the trails passed through as many communities, and past as many shrines and resting places as possible. At the Spring Equinox 380YE, word came that an [[Egregore|egregore]] had fallen valiantly in battle, and that an agreement with the [[Jotun]] meant that his body would be returning home - along with the bodies of many [[Heroes|heroes]] who had fallen fighting the orcs. The builders were determined that the trails would be completed in time that the body of Guthwulf would be the first to pass along them. The last blocks for the last bridge were placed as the funeral procession was mere paces away. As the procession was crossing, in a flash of inspiration a builder who had not yet put their tools away carved into the side of the bridge the name of the egregore, Guthwulf of the Red Embrace.
The name was soon joined by that of the other fallen [[Heroes|heroes]] of Wintermark who travelled across it, and in other parts of the Pilgrim's Trail mourners have begun carving the names of the dead into the fabric of the last bridge they cross on their way to their final resting place in the waters of Kallavesa.
### The Beacons of Wintermark
Shortly before the Spring Equinox 383YE, the beacons of Wintermark were completed, covering [[Hahnmark]] and Kallavesa. This sequence of beacons and watchtowers protects both territories from surprise invasion and allows heroic individuals to contribute to the defence of Wintermark as if they were a [[Fortification]].
The Plants of Kallavesa
The Kallavesa swamps are home to many rare and unique forms of flora and fauna that are below our [[Abstraction|abstraction]] layer in the sense that they are important to the Kallavesi mystics, but not important enough to be one of the five herbs. While many of these herbs have useful properties (such as groveblossom or bitterweed), they are very much along the lines of headache treatments or gentle sleeping draughts, rather than purification of an envenomed wound or repairing a crippled limb. Other examples might include tobacco, for example, or flavoursome herbs used in cooking, as well as mild narcotics.
It is very common for the folk of Kallavesa (of all traditions) to reference odd herbs or animal extracts - but it is important not to let other players get the impression that these plants are a big deal, as this [[Will|will]] cause [[Confusion|confusion]], or disappointment.
One possible [[Opportunity|opportunity]] these herbs present is for a character who wants an unusual or distinctive [[Farm]] or [[Business]]. Like the herders you could define your business as trading in medicinal herbs, or your [[Farm|farm]] as growing minor medicinal plants - indeed it is easy and appropriate to diversify a [[Farm|farm]] to include some of the potent herbs produced by a [[Herb garden]].
## Regions
### Kallavesa Marsh
Qualities: Marsh, Haunted
Sandwiched between the Westmere and the Sovevann, this is the place most outsiders think of when they imagine Kallavesa. Boggy marsh, dotted with lone huts on stilts where pale herons stalk and burbling frogs maintain an eerie chorus at [[Dawn|dawn]] and dusk. These are the haunted marshes where the heroes of Wintermark rest, and the few scattered halls here are generally given over to the study of [[The Way]] or serve as hostelries for visiting pilgrims come to honour the dead. The presence of a grove at the heart of the Marshes consecrated to the virtue of [[Pride]] with true [[Liao|liao]] serves as a special place of [[Pilgrimage|pilgrimage]] for Winterfolk - a constant reminder to the entire nation of the [[Heroism]] of their ancestors - and has far-reaching consequences for the entire nation.
The largest settlement in this region is Masi home to the dead and those who guard them. Funerals are usually held here. On the rare occasions that a [[Feni]] or [[Jotun]] raid is not turned back at the borders, it is the warriors of Masi who force them back. 
The presence of so many dead heroes gives the entire region the ''haunted'' quality; there are more ghosts here than anywhere else in [[The Empire|the Empire]] with the possible exception of the [[Necropolis]] in [[Highguard]].
### Rundhal Marsh
Quality: Marsh
Site of Rundhal, the largest permanent settlement in Kallavesa. It is a place dedicated to [[Wisdom|wisdom]] and the [[Mystic|mystic]] learning of the Kallavesi. While Rundhal Marsh is boggy and damp, the western stretches towards [[Hahnmark]] are somewhat elevated and drier - here are found many copses of beggarwood and other softwoods, carefully tended by stewards who ensure their health and that the availability of wood for building the unique stilted buildings of the marshes.
### Skymark
The northernmost of the Kallavesa regions is chilled by northern winds for much of the year, but is also home to rich farms and sprawling holds. Small fishing fleets are common here, and several of the villages here maintain ties with their cousins in [[Sermersuaq]] via the Rikkivesi and the Atkonartoq. In southern Skymark is Ishal, across the cold waters of Sovevann from Rundhal and Masi, furthest of the three settlements round the lake at the heart of Kallavesa. This is where the wise go to read the future in the flight of [[Birds|birds]] and the [[Night|night]] skies, as the scops learn at Rundhal and the dead heroes rest in the marshes near Masi. It’s a place for the old, for learning and for clear thought. "''Threes, and threes and threes,''" the seers say, those who foretold the coming of the [[Steinr]].
On the waters of the Rikkivesi floats Hyljehal, a unique hall built by [[The Empire|the Empire]] to serve as a meeting place between the seal-shifter people and their Wintermark cousins. It may be moored along the shores of either Kallavesa or [[Sermersuaq]]. The [[Mediator of Hyljehal]] - traditionally a [[Suaq]] [[Mediator|mediator]] is charged with maintaining good relations between the two people.
### West Marsh
Qualities: Marsh, Coastal
On the shores of the Westmere stands Westerhal, home to the small [[Fleet|fleet]] of Kallavesi boats that keep the coast safe from Jotun raiders. Its importance has slowly dwindled, in part due to the rise of Meade in [[The Marches|the Marches]] which has much better access to wood and stores, but the patrol ships of [[The Marches|the Marches]] are uncommon this far north. Once it was the second settlement of Kallavesa, and there are residents who would like to see it take its place again as a centre of trade and defence of Wintermark - perhaps with a new [[Fortification|fortification]].
### Wittal Grove
Quality: [[Forest]]
At the heart of the grove stands Wittal, a place of learning and the study of herbs and plants. Many [[Grimnir|grimnir]] have spent a season or more studying here, as have healers from further afield, even a few from far [[Urizen]]. Some never return from foraging expeditions into the deep-woods; the [[Feni]] are usually blamed. The inhabitants of Wittal also maintain the The Tree of Swords, a lone elm tree in a glade hung with the swords of dead Wintermark warriors that is also the heart of a strong Winter [[Regio]]. Weapons are hung there of warriors who died with their quests uncompleted. It’s said that if the tree ever flowers, the warriors [[Will|will]] return.
Where the trees join the marshes, on the shores of the Westmere, stands the small port of Fisk. Before there was an Empire, Fisk was an armed camp watching the orcs of what is now [[Mitwold]] (and later, the Marchers who displaced them). After the formation of the Empire, the warriors largely left Fisk and the [[Traders|traders]] moved in. Today, Fisk is a small but prosperous port allowing adventurous ship owners to trade with Meade and the Marchers and even with foreigners across the sea as far as the [[Asavean Archipelago]] and the [[Sumaah Republic]].
[[Senate]] Elections|Senator_for_Kallavesa|Territory=Kallavesa|Season=Winter
## OOC Notes
* All the regions of Kallavesa are under Imperial control
* Attempting to build a permanent [[Fortification]] in one of the regions with the marsh quality is likely to encounter additional difficulties.
* While it is possible for armies to travel from West Marsh to North Fens in [[Bregasland]], it is not possible to cross the Westmere into Ottermire; Imperial (or Jotun) forces [[Will|will]] need to go through [[Mitwold]] if they wish to reach Ottermire (or Kallavesa Marsh).
* The Beacons of Wintermark are a unique wonder that helps defend the territory. They only inflict [[Casualties|casualties]] on an attacking force in the region of Rundhal Marsh.
* The Pilgrim's Trail is a [[Great work]] that provides an additional 50 votes in the [[Imperial Synod]] and 25 [[Liao]] divided among the congregations of Kallavesa. They were built as the result of an [[Opportunity]] (detailed here) - under normal circumstances a [[Great work|great work]] cannot provide [[Liao|liao]] and votes.
* As long as the entire region of Kallavesa Marsh remains in Winterfolk hands the nation can support an additional army as detailed here.
* Some of the halls of Kallavesa are detailed here.