---
IgnoreLinking: false
Tags:
- Gazetteer
- Imperial-Territory
Title: Madruga
draft: false
revision_date: 2024-01-30 11:27:41+00:00
revision_id: 107405
---

## Overview
[[Madruga]] of the Jewelled Isles is the easternmost territory of [[The Brass Coast]], running from the [[Kahraman]] mountains down to the [[Bay of Catazar]]. Down the coast of Madruga and [[Feroz]] the Corsairs and merchants raise their sails, running goods to [[Bastion]] and [[Sarvos]], trading with foreign powers, and Fighting off [[Barbarian]] incursions.
It is the most densely settled of the Freeborn territories; the nation began here, with the landing of [[The Three Sisters]] and their families at old Atalaya. Over generations, their descendants spread across the mainland building and cultivating, until Madruga was tamed. Today, it is scattered with villages and small towns - the sprawling city Siroc even rivals the cities of [[The League]] in size and wealth.
It is the spiritual home of the corsairs; many maritime families have lived on the islands of Free Landing and Calvos Sound since the Earliest days of the Freeborn nation.Madruga has not always been peaceful, however. The [[Grendel]] have attacked the islands and towns here for centuries; usually their Fleets are intercepted at sea before they can do too much daMage, but there have been times when their raiders have sacked coastal settlements. For a few harrowing months in the years before the foundation of [[The Empire]], the Grendel swept inland here conquering Lightsea and the islands, and threatening to burn Siroc. They were turned back after months of vicious fighting, but the memory of their attack is sometimes credited by historians as being a factor in the decision of the Freeborn to join the Empire.
## Recent History
After the Autumn Equinox 381YE, the Grendel armada invaded Madruga. They destroyed the [[Freeborn Storm]], burnt the Atalaya Shipyards, and brought the [[Black Thorns]] to the brink of annihilation. Their forces then moved against Lightsea, raided the port of Quzar, and within short order half the coast of Madruga was in their hands.
## Major Features
### Siroc
The Sapphire, the City of a Thousand Sails, is acknowledged as the pre-eMinent city of the Freeborn. It lies in Madruga close by the border with Feroz. Brightly coloured tents extend Siroc out far beyond the small cluster of stone buildings that make up the heart of the city. Sails of all shapes and sizes fill the sheltered bay, which is guarded by a series of iron woven nets and chains bought at great expense from the forges of [[Wintermark]]. The city is said to have been founded by the [[Guerra]] [[Family]] shortly after the Freeborn came to the Brass Coast.
Siroc is the site of the Glass Parador. The [[Mistress of the Glass Parador]] is an [[Imperial Title]] appointed each Summer by Freeborn citizens who control [[Fleet]] personal resources.
### Trajadoz
The town of Trajadoz in north-western Torres was founded roughly three hundred years ago by the Trajaduz family of traders who were intent on fostering trade between the mines of newly conquered Kahraman and the wealth of Sarvos. The most recent influx of townsfolk was during the invasion of [[Segura]] in 363YE. Since the reclamation of Segura in 378YE it stood mostly empty, save for a few bandits, as the Freeborn returned to their homes. Following the end of the rebellion in Marracoss and Emphedor Imperial fleet captains had an [[Opportunity]] to evacuate some of the defeated rebels. Roughly a third of the refugees, offered sanctuary in the Empire, have taken up residence in the mostly abandoned town, and created a community. 
The Marracossans (never Nemorians, and rarely accepting Asavean) are a disparate group; made up of priests and soldiers, crafters and traders. One of their number Leonorada Rousseau, priest of Aseus, has spent some time in the paradors of nearby Calvos. They have made clear that they, and their community, like the Empire, and they like the town of Tradajoz. They wish to remain in the town, but Leonorada understands that the community's intent to continue following and worshipping their gods could lead to some unfortunate accusations. In Winter 384YE, the [[Imperial Senate]] ceded control of Trajadoz to the Nemorians. This has raised a few concerns among their neighbours as it frees them to build temples to their gods if they wish - and indeed to do anything else they want to do. You can read more about the Marracossans in the [[Large but far away]] wind of fortune.
### Atalaya
The town of Atalaya in Free Landing marks the place where the Brass Coast was born; the first landing of the three sisters and their families. Built around the side of a secluded cove, the seas around the island that share its name are a navigational nightmare. Before the Shining Pillar was built, reaching the hidden docks of Atalaya was a feat to tax the most skilled ship's crews. Today, the landWards channel has been widened but is protected by hidden obstructions that only the Freeborn pilots know well. Atalaya is also known for its deep natural harbour - many ships of the Freeborn fleet count Atalaya as their home port.
Atalaya is the oldest Freeborn settlement in the Brass Coast, but its prominence was eclipsed centuries ago by Quzar. Today, it is a place of [[Pilgrimage]] for many Freeborn followers of [[The Way]] - there are a number of shrines and temples dedicated to [[Pride]] and [[Vigilance]] here. The School of the Sanguine Bloom, one of the most prestigious schools dedicated to [[Herb]]-lore in the Brass Coast also stands here, founded long ago by Sameen i [[Riqueza]], youngest daughter of Riqueza herself. 
### Calvos
The bustling town of Calvos lies on the shores of Calvos Sound. The slopes outside the town are rich with grapes, and the fine wines produced here travel all over the Empire. Even the sommeliers of the League pay well for a Calvos vintage. The exemplar [[Zemress]] i Ezmara i [[Erigo]] was born here towards the end of the second century YE, and her ship ''The Kraken's Bane'' is housed at a special dry dock here. The ship, and the Seminary that stands nearby are a destination for many pilgrims of [[Prosperity]] - even those from as far afield as the [[Sumaah Republic]]. Near the seminary stands the House of Guerra, a place dedicated to supporting refugees to The Empire, especially those who seek a new family among the Freeborn.
### The Lyceum
The Lyceum was established during the reign of [[Empress Aenea]] on an island east of Siroc. It is a centre of arcane learning in The Empire, and the [[Dean of the Lyceum]] maintains sumptuous apartments here. Approach to the island is carefUlly controlled by the Magicians and professors, and the most promising magicians are invited to study or teach there.
### The [[Commonwealth]] [[Embassy]]
The Commonwealth Embassy is located in Siroc. It consists of several buildings built after the severe Commonwealth style, which stand in beautifully laid out and maintained gardens, surrounded by a low [[White granite]] wall. Despite the severity of the Architecture, the embassy is surprisingly welcoming - the gates stand permanently open, albeit under the watchful gaze of a cadre of Commonwealth soldiers attached to the staff of [[Ambassador]] Mila Eisenfalke. The majority of the staff are human, although there are apparently half-a-dozen orcs whose role on the ambassadorial staff is not clear. There are no daeva citizens working at the embassy as far as Imperial observers can make out.
### Sunset Roads
Anchor|South-West RoadsWith enCouragement from the notoriously sea-averse [[Faraden]], a grand highway connects Siroc with Calvos, cutting across the territory rather than following the coast. A shorter road runs along the northern banks of the Scorrero, crossing just north of Cerevado in Segura via a beautiful arched bridge of white granite. While the road is used extensively by the Faraden, it also serves to cut the journey time from the northern borders of Madruga to the trading city of Siroc, making it a popular route for Freeborn and League merchants as well.
The south-west roads are a [[Great work]] that complement the already existing Blood Red Roads, bringing increased prosperity to the owners of Farms and businesses in Madruga.
### The Salt Guard
A grand [[Fortification]] designed by Menno van Ritsjhof comprised of two stout fortifications on either side of the bay along the approach to Siroc. Each fort is equipped with powerful trebuchet and catapults. A garrison of skilled mariners and corsairs ensures the towers are always ready to respond to any threat, and with the significant reinforcement of the existing iron chains and nets that guard the harbour they are extremely effective against shore offensives. He believes that not only will a sea assault against Siroc be made nigh impossible, but that the garrisons of the two towers would also be in a position to protect the Lyceum which lies to the south-east of Siroc proper.
### The Spider's Dream
An elegant bridge spans the river Vassa here, connecting Trivento to The Brass Coast. It is a marvellous piece of engineering that resembles a spider's web. There is a toll to pay, or you can take the long way around. Unfortunately, time has not been kind to the Spider's Dream. Resources initially used to maintain it were siphoned off in the time of [[Emperor Walter]], and the bridge became increasingly dangerous to cross. In Spring 377YE, however, the Imperial Senate took steps to ensure its restoration to full functionality - reinstating the Imperial Title of Spider's Tollkeep in the process and heading off potentially unpleasant implications for the people of both Sarvos and Madruga. In Spring 380YE, Grendel orcs attached to the forces involved in [[The sack of Sarvos]] made an attempt to take advantage of unusually high flooding in the river as part of an attempt to destroy the bridge entirely, cutting the Freeborn territories off from the rest of The Empire. They were stopped by the brave action of Imperial [[Heroes]], and the bridge preserved - and along with it the ability for armies to pass from the south-western Empire into Sarvos and [[Tassato]], and vice versa.
anchor|The Atalaya Shipyards
### The Atalaya Shipyards (Ruined)
Following a motion at the first Imperial [[Senate session]] in Winter 376YE, work began to expand the docks of Atalaya. Under the guidance of Miroslav, [[Senator]] for the League city of Sarvos, many wains of white granite and [[Weirwood]] were committed to building both a massive seawall, and a great Imperial [[Shipyard]] equipped with drydocks, powerful cranes for loading and unloading, and expanded warehouses and work spaces. Completed shortly before Autumn 377YE, the shipyard provided significant benefits to the Freeborn ships based in Madruga. In addition, the facilities here proved sufficient to allow the construction of the first [[Imperial navy]] since the days of [[Emperor Barabbas]]; work began on constructing Freeborn vessels in Winter 378YE.
It is perhaps fitting that when the Grendel invaded Madruga after the Autumn Equinox 381YE, and destroyed the shipyard the Freeborn Storm was put to port and shared the same fiery fate as the docks where it was created.
### Freeborn Flame Marina
Work began on the reconstruction of Atalaya harbour following an opportunity presented after the National [[Assembly]] of The Brass Coast called on the people of Feroz to flee the territory rather than suffer under the hands of the Grendel. Work was completed shortly before the Spring Equinox 385YE and the abundance of willing, talented shipwrights has meant fleets are most easily upgradeable, at least until The Brass Coast reclaim Feroz.
On the harbour, looking out to sea, are a number of statues each one different but reminiscent of contemporary Freeborn.
### Parador of Kindled Flame
Work on the orphanage was Commissioned by Laughlan Vi [[Temeschwar]], [[Master of Rings]], during the Summer Solstice 385YE. The building itself is understated, with the only real decoration being a small plaque at the entrance “''In Virtue we remember those who watch over others. These names as follow helped with the construction of this sanctuary: Tiana i Zayden i Riqueza, Bakar i Riqueza, Ray Fosterbrooke, and Laughlan Vi Temeschwar''”
## Regions
### Calvos Sound
Quality: Coastal
The town of Calvos stands on the shores of Calvos Sound; the entire region is named for the great sHallow bay that cuts into the eastern shores of the Brass Coast. The waters of the Sound are prime fishing grounds, and the surrounding slopes are known for their rich agriculture, especially grapes, grapefruits, and pomegranates. At the end of the second interregnum, Calvos Sound was the site of a vicious engagement between Grendel raiders and the forces of the [[Red Wind Corsairs]]. Despite catastrophic losses, the Freeborn army held. Close to breaking they were forced to retreat, but the campaign achieved its purpose by convincing the nations of the south that the threat from the Grendel was real, [[Events]] that would eventually lead to the elevation of [[Empress Deanne]]. To this day, many of the people of Calvos Sound have a notable antipathy for the orcs of the Broken Shore.
### Free Landing
Quality: Coastal
The sprawling islands that form the region of Free Landing are diverse and well-settled. The islands here were the first home of the Freeborn - the town of Atalaya marks the spot where the Brass Coast proper began. The waters between the islands have a reputation for being treacherous and difficult for foreign captains; during the reign of Empress Aenea the Empire built a great lighthouse here called The Shining Pillar. This massive white-and-gold tower is one of the most prominent landmarks in the Empire often adopted by Freeborn sailors as a symbol of the Brass Coast as a whole; when they can see the beacon of the Shining Pillar, they know they are home. The grand lighthouse echoes the [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lighthouse_of_Alexandria Lighthouse of Alexandria] in design, rather than more modern tall cylindrical towers, and is constructed of white granite. [[Mithril]] mirrors that capture and amplify the light of the fire [[Burning]] atop it, which is kept burning by a cadre of attendants who live in the towerr.
When the Grendel invaded Madruga in Winter 381YE, they looted many precious relics from the town of Atalaya and burnt the shipyard there to the ground. In the process they destroyed the Freeborn navy, the Freeborn Storm.
### The Great Grasses
These fertile plains are sometimes called the Emerald Sea; and the nomadic families who live here the Corsairs of the Emerald Sea. The inhabitants have a reputation for being a little more inSular than is typical of the Brass Coast. They own large herds and mostly keep to themselves except when they Visit the towns of Siroc Plains, Lightsea and Calvos Sound to sell their animals. There are no permanent settlements of significant size on the Great Grasses.
### Lightsea
Quality: Coastal
A well-settled region known for the friendliness of its paradors. The largest settlement here is Quzar, a bustling port town of white towers and stained glass that is sometimes described as the soul of the Brass Coast. The Towers of Quzar are known as a gathering place for [[Hakima]] from all across the nation - an annual "council" meets here every midsummer to share knowledge and gossip.
Many of the coastal settlements here were plundered by the Grendel during their incursion toward the end of 381YE. Quzar in particular was hard hit by the orc raiders, with some damage to the town and significant damage to the wealth of the citizens. A year later toward the end of 382YE potent [[Magic]] restored the town, wiping away any sign the Grendel were ever there.
### Siroc Plains
Quality: Coastal
The plains around the city of Siroc are scattered with small villages and threaded with well-maintained roads. The Lyceum stands on an island off the coast here and contributes to the reputation of this region as the beating heart of the Brass Coast.
### Torres
The northernmost region of Madruga, and one end of the Spider's Dream. The land here is a little more rugged than in the southern regions, and the climate is Generally cooler. The people who dwell here share some of the reputation of the miners of Kahraman; as being suspicious and quarrelsome. Partly this reputation might be a result of regular clashes between Freeborn traders and League merchants out of Sarvos. A regular 'problem' for the inhabitants is that League merchants would prefer to travel south to the more Prosperous towns of the eastern coast to sell their wares, bypassing the markets of Torres. It is shameful to admit, but there are more incidents of brigandry against League caravans in Torres than in almost any other area around the Bay of Catazar. When such incidents get out of hand, the Spider's Tollkeep is often prevailed upon to sort them out.
The town of Trajadoz is found in the north-west of Torres. Formerly a home to Freeborn displaced from Kahraman and Segura, it is now home to a very different group of refugees - Marracossan exiles from the [[Asavean Archipelago]].
Senate Elections|Senator_for_Madruga|Territory=Madruga|Season=Winter
## Strategic Considerations
* The damage to the Spider's Dream bridge hampers movement between Madruga and Sarvos or Tassato
The damage to the Spider's Dream bridge presents significant difficulties to armies trying to move between Madruga and either Tassato or Sarvos (or vice versa). Any army that does so must immediately stop in the other territory, even if they still have movement remaining. Repairing the Spider's Tollkeep will require the Senate to [[Commission]] an [[Appraisal]] to determine how best to replicate the genius of the suspension bridge's original [[Architect]] without damaging its integrity.
## OOC Notes
* All the regions of Madruga are in Freeborn (and thus Imperial) hands.
* The Atalaya Shipyards were a Great work that provided a share of additional money to any Freeborn character who operates a Fleet out of Madruga. They were destroyed by the Grendel in Winter 381YE.
* The Freeborn Flame Marina was constructed from the ruins of the Atalaya Shipyards. Any Freeborn character can upgrade their fleet in Madruga for one less wain of Weirwood. This benefit stops if the Brass Coast controls Feroz
* The Salt Guard is a rank one fortification. Against any shore offensive aimed at capturing Siroc or the Lyceum (essentially any Shore Offensive aimed at the Siroc Plains), the fortification would resist conquest with an effective force of 6,000 (bearing in mind that the benefit of a fortification in a region directly being attacked will further increase this force, this is a significant advantage).
Brass Coast Links