---
IgnoreLinking: false
Tags:
- Gazetteer
- Imperial-Territory
- Varushka
Title: Ossium
draft: false
revision_date: 2023-09-19 14:11:38+00:00
revision_id: 105764
---

## Overview
[[Ossium]] is the north-western territory of [[The Mallum]], which borders [[Karsk]] and [[Holberg]], and lies across [[The Semmerlak]] from [[Weirwater]] and [[Semmerholm]]. It is a land of dense, twisted Forests and dripping marsh, rich in both natural resources and threats. Only a small portion of the territory is open - the majority of Ossium is shrouded in old, moss bearded trees, pools of stagnant water, and narrow, fast-flowing streams. The majority of the population are orcs - primarily subjects dominated by the [[Druj]], the former masters of the Territory. There are also scattered small groups of humans, primarily former slaves of the Druj or privileged enclaves such as the Ketsov.
[[The Empire]] has made some prOgress in encouraging the orcs to see them as liberators rather than simply more tyrants. [[Preachers]] from several Imperial nations have Visited the civilian population and inTroduced them to the idea of the virtues, and invitations have been given to any orcs who wish to do so to travel to [[Skarsind]] and begin new lives as [[Imperial Orcs]].
Most Imperial trade currently passes west into Karsk. There are very few actual roads in the territory, although thanks to the [[Navarr]] there are a number of newly minted Trods. The [[Thule]] have apparently been working to clear a road linking their fortress and the Silent Pines to their own territory - but they have chosen to cut east and west to connect with their holdings in Krevsaty rather than forge north through the depths of the Bonewood into Sküld.
Many Varushkans are a little unhappy that there are not better roads - the lack of a road building initiative is likely to slow down the exploitation of the rich woodlands. An obvious alternative for increasing the [[Prosperity]] of the territory would be to construct a port in Bittershore, now that the Sand Fishers have relocated, allowing for trade with [[Dawn]] and the western territories of [[Varushka]].
In addition to the Sunless Depths and the Silent Pines, the territory is actually remarkably rich in raw [[Materials]]. The forests are fUll of beggarwood and [[Ambergelt]], with extensive deposits of dragonbone reported in the Drownbark Forest. The Galath Fields and the inland portions of Bittershore are composed of rich, fertile soil that is already producing fine harvests for Varushkan settlers. There are almost no Mines in the territory, however, and it seems the best locations for establishing Mana sites are buried in the depths of the forests in out-of-the-way areas that in some cases are still controlled by orc bandits.
## Economics
* All forest personal resources in Ossium produce 2 additional measures
* Any Commission intended to increase production of metals in Ossium would be twice the normal [[Cost]]
The rich groves and stretches of woodland in Ossium are unusually fertile and suitable for exploitation. As a result, any Varushkan who owns a Forest in Ossium can expect it to produce 2 extra measures of the appropriate material every season. This benefit reflects the natural bounty of the area, coupled with a long history of under-use and should endure for many years to come.
Ossium is ''very'' poor in valuable metals. Any [[Sinecure]], [[Ministry]], [[Great work]], or similar Commission designed to produce Green iron, Weltsilver, Tempest jade, or Orichalcum, or which tries to improve the production of such mines, will need twice as much in terms of materials and time.
## Recent History
The invasion was preceded by the construction of the Golden Causeway, a gift from the [[Eternal]] [[Eleonaris]]. In Autumn 382YE, the causeway allowed the armies of Dawn to cross the Semmerlak and invade Ossium, taking the Druj by surprise. Supported by the [[Golden Axe]] of Varushka, and by a major Thule force out of [[Otkodov]], they quickly crushed the Bone Serpent and Amber Scorpion clans. Following initial successes on Bitter Shore and Galath Plains, Winter saw them conquer the Echofell, and culminated in a pitched battle at the Tower of the Scorpion. The Druj attempted to [[Fight]] back, but with they were unable to prevent the allied forces conquering the whole of Ossium by the Spring Equinox 383YE.
During the Winter Solstice 382YE the Senate voted to assign the territory to the nation of Varushka.
Following the Autumn Equinox 383YE, the [[Fire of the South]] escorted a great number of Ossium orcs, through Varushka to Skarsind, to begin new lives far from the threat of the Mallum. Many orcs stayed behind however, refusing to leave their homes due to stubbornness or distrust of the Empire. There are also scattered ''human'' settlements in Ossium - especially in Galath Fields and Bittershore - representing former slaves of the Druj as well as people who made an "accommodation" with the orc overlords. Many - but by no means all - of these humans are of Varushkan descent.
At the Winter Solstice 383YE summit, the [[Imperial Senate]] ratified a treaty with the Thule that ceded the Region of Webwood to the orcs of Otkodov.
Over Winter 383YE, a sea of sell swords, wagon raiders, Wardens, Dawnish knights (both errant and questing), Navarr scouts, and Imperial Orc preachers descended on Ossium. They worked to clear out as many Druj as possible, support new vales, and reach out to the populace of the territory. With the aid of the [[Hounds of Glory]] and the Golden Axe, they ensured that the territory was secured and that the people there were part of the Varushkan nation. The original Opportunity is described in the [[Beyond the light]] wind of fortune, and its resolution in the [[Blood makes noise]] wind of fortune.
## Points of Interest
### Miasma Pillars
At one time there were miasma pillars in each of the seven regions of Ossium, and the entire territory laboured under their oppressive shroud. Efforts by the [[Cardinal of Vigilance]] identified the locations of some of the stones that anchor the miasma in place, and the scouts pouring into the territory located the rest. As of the end of 383YE, it is believed that there are at most two miasma pillars still standing in Ossium. One most likely still stand as at the Fang Tree, in the Webwood, and the other may be somewhere in the depths of Thule-controlled Bonewood - although it's very unlikely the Thule would have left it standing if they knew how to deal with it. With most of the pillars supporting it destroyed by Imperial [[Heroes]], the miasma has almost entirely unravelled, but it still lies thick and oppressive over the Webwood.
### Lomaa
A shambolic town on the Galath Fields, built over the Crawling Depths. The civil service has established an office here to help oversee the development of the territory. Many Varushkan settlers come here first, before dispersing across the territory, giving it a frontier feel. A number of merchants from further east are drawn here, making a quick profit selling vital supplies to the Varushkan, and it is also the site of a thriving market where representatives of the newly established vales come to sell their wares to traders intending to return east.
### Ketsov
Ketsov is home to the human clan of the same name, an ambitious [[Family]] who actually prospered under the Druj to an extent. The inhabitants of the town and the surrounding settlements clEarly have Varushkan heritage. Descended from settlers who crossed the border from Karsk many years ago they were the most eager of the Ossium natives to embrace the Varushkan egregore. Symbols of the Bone Scorpion, that once adorned the town have been carefully and meticulously erased. In their place are new banners and paintings mostly most are variants of the stylised double-headed eagle clutching axes that is a traditional symbol of Varushka.
The Ketsov Trade Exchange was established here shortly before the Summer Solstice 383YE, allowing the Ketsov to trade that same expertise in crafting [[Magic Items]] that made them useful to the Druj to their new Imperial neighbours. Almost all of the sprawling, extended family are now bonded to the Varushkan egregore and the family has clearly embraced the advantages of being Imperial citizens. In Spring 384YE, for example, they petitioned to be allowed to settle a new vale in Karsk and with the permission of the Imperial Senate established the Ketsov Mir Mozga in the woods of Lestasny.
(OOC Note: Further details of the Ketsov family can be found here.)
### The Iron Roads
During the Autumn Equinox 382 YE, the Civil Service presented a proposal for the Iron Roads, a network of Varushkan highways to link together the prominent vales, mines, and forests of the entire nation. With the roads underway, and Varushkan settlers flooding in to Ossium, the civil service offices at Lomaa presented proposals for expanding the Iron Roads across Ossium as well. The settlements of Lomaa, Ketsov, and Lanit are now all connected by a great road  from Karsk, running as far east as the Ruins of the Tower of the Scorpion in the Echofell, and down through Nearweald. [[Varushkan Road]] builders had little experience working with the extensive marshes of the south, but their confidence that stone bridges could be used to reach the former Druj settlement of Orieb in the Drownbark Forest proved well founded. As well as bringing prosperity to the Forest owners of the territory, and to the [[Vale of the Sunless Depths]], the roads dramatically improved the infrastructure in the territory, removing the final ''under-developed'' quality from Ossium.
### The Field of [[Glory]]
This ironic name is given to the site of one of the first significant engagements between the Imperial forces and the Druj. Some twenty thousand human and orc Farmers and fishers who had fled the invading force were corralled by the Druj, given makeshift weapons and driven to engage Imperial forces. The result was a bloodbath, with barely a handful of Imperials injured or slain and thousands of farmers or fisherfolk wounded and killed. [[The Battlefield]] has since been discovered to be rich in [[Marrowort]], although some reports suggest the area is now haunted by the ghosts of terrified and angry orcs and humans caught between the malice of the Druj and the zeal of the Imperial armies. More information about the Field of Glory can be found in the [[Thousands or more]] wind of fortune.
### The Palace of Orieb
The sprawling, partially flooded palace of Orieb is believed to have been home to the Buruk Tepel of the Bone Serpent clan. It has been abandoned, but the maze-like structure has still only been partially mapped. It is a peculiar and somewhat unsettling combination of living area, apothecary workshop, palace, political hub, and [[Herb garden]] with plants growing inside the structure in internal gardens - some open to the elements and others roofed with glass or cunning wooden shutters that can be adjusted to control the amount of rain and sun that reaches them. Following the Summer Solstice 384YE, the [[Minister of Historical Research]] dispatched an expedition, lead by seasoned Imperial Orc adventurer ''Snowstorm Henk'', to explore the palace and root out some of its secrets. They discovered several interesting facts about the place, as well as multiple hidden rooms, which are recounted in detail in the [[Expedition to Orieb]] briefing.
### Marshstand Skerry
Standing in the Drownbark Forest, the Marshstand Skerry is a low rock that allegedly used to be tended by a ghulai of the Bone Serpent. It has apparently been abandoned since the territory was first invaded - allegedly since before the Webwood fell. The rock is surrounded by decades or perhaps even centuries [[Worth]] of bones from creatures - some of them clearly humans or orcs - drowned or interred in the marshy waters to rot. The place has a poor reputation - it is both considered to be haunted and also known to be home to especially large, viciously bloodthirsty insects similar to mosquitos. More information about Marshstand Skerry can be found in the Thousands or more wind of fortune.
anchor|Tower of the Scorpion
### Tower of the Scorpion (Ruined)
This tower of [[White granite]], was built by the Druj. Surrounded by a wall topped with twisted metal razors, It stood in the centre of a large, open killing field. A network of rope bridges extended from wooden towers that squatted under the shadow of the walls. In the season following the Autumn Equinox 382YE, Imperial armies captured the Tower of the Scorpion from the Amber Scorpion clan, significantly damaging, but still claiming it. The tower remained under Imperial control until it was brought down by invading armies out of The Mallum in Summer 384YE.
### Vale of the Sunless Depths
The Depths are a [[Mithril]] [[Mine]] under the settlement of Lomaa. Custodianship of the Depths is an [[Imperial Title]] that brings with it a Seat on the [[Imperial Bourse]]. It produces 14 Imperial wains of mithril every season. Control is allocated to any Imperial citizen by open auction during the Autumn Equinox.
During the Spring Equinox 384YE, the Senate chose to allow the new boyars of Ossium to claim those parts of the mine that were not currently being exploited. The mine was upgraded, but the additional production claimed by the vales of Ossium - greatly enhancing the prosperity of the new settlements.
### The Silent Pines
The Silent Pines is a large [[Weirwood]] grove in the central Bonewood. It is controlled by the Thule. The human slaves who were part of the labour force used to maintain and [[Farm]] the woodlands here were delivered to Karsk shortly after the orcs of Otkodov cemented their hold here. Many of the inhabitants of the Galath Fields and Bittershore claim the Silent Pines are "Cursed" in some fashion. Despite this, many structures across Ossium were clearly crafted from weirwood taken from the groves - the timber is very dark and the Druj often polished and varnished it in such a way to call out the patterns hidden in the wood in a way that is both attractive and somewhat unsettling.
### Trods
The Trods of Ossium, established by the Navarr during a brutal battle that took place in the territory during the Autumn Equinox 382YE, are only partially explored. Many of them run through dangerous, unmapped parts of the territory. It is surmised that the trods here, along with those in Karsk, help to anchor the trods - and The [[The Vallorn]] - of Sküld to the wider network.
## Regions
The regions of Ossium have three special qualities which represent the Challenges facing the Varushkans in securing the territory.
### Bittershore
Bittershore was the first region of Ossium encountered by the Empire, and also the first one to be conquered. It lies along the eastern banks of the Semmerlak, and one end of the Golden Causeway is anchored here. The Causeway is quiescent at the moment, but all it would take is a Dawnish witch to open it and the shimmering bridge would stretch back across the lake to Laroc in Semmerholm. Prior to the Imperial invasion, Bittershore was home to the Sand Fisher clan of orcs. The Imperial Senate ceded the region of Misericorde in Holberg to the Sand Fishers and the entire nation moved south across the Semmerlak to Holberg. 
Varushkan settlers have already begun to establish vales on the shores of the lake, taking advantage of the rich fishing opportunities and fertile farmland. As the prosperity of the region increases, the likelihood that Varushka will be able to support another [[Imperial army]] increases.
### Bonewood
* Quality: Forest, Otkodov
The northernmost region of Ossium is the Bonewood, which allegedly takes its name either from the rich profusion of beggarwood trees or from the number of bleached bones that litter the Forest, remnants of many historical battles between the Druj and either the Thule or the Varushkans. Even before it was conquered by the Thule, the forest had a dire reputation for being "haunted". The local orcs tell grim tales of shadowy figures that prey on travellers among the ancient pines, leaving blood-drained corpses in their wake. The Thule have not welcomed Imperial scouts into this area. They have been polite but firm, and made it clear that they are not welcome. The pine forests have been lightly mapped; they extend north to the borders of Sküld, and west to the borders of Krevsaty. There is known to be a large weirwood forest here - the Silent Pines - which is now controlled by the Thule.
There is also a castle here - Fljajokep - controlled by the Thule. It overlooks the Silent Pines and was finished in a mere six months, the construction supplemented by powerful [[Autumn magic]]. It stands at one end of a narrow but well-travelled pathway that extends from the Silent Pines south toward Ketsov, and was used by the Druj to transport shipments of weirwood south into more open ground.
Anchor|Ossium characters
Ossium Characters
Ossium is on the list of territories new Varushkan characters can come from. For now however, the only appropriate character backgrounds for Varushkans in Ossium are "Imperial citizen from somewhere else starting a new life as a Varushkan in Ossium" or "freed human slave who has embraced Varushkan culture". An obvious example of the latter would be someone who was freed from the Crawling Depths by the armies and introduced to Varushkan ways by the soldiers of the Golden Axe or the miners of Moresvah. It is explicitly not possible to start as a member of the Ketsov family, or similar group of Druj collaborators.
It's also of course also possible to move to Ossium in-character using the normal rules for changing territory.
When creating a character from Ossium, you may wish to bear in mind that the wealth of the territory lies in its forests and marshes, rather than in its mines. Forest, Farm, and Herb garden personal resources are all excellent choices for characters whose home territory is Ossium, while mines are particularly poor choices.
### Drownbark Forest
* Quality: Forest, Marsh, Under threat
The last region of Ossium conquered by the Empire, the Drownbark Forest is a stinking marsh covered with moss-shrouded, dripping forest. Varushkan settlers have comparatively little experience dealing with the marshy terrain of the Drownbark Forest, and there are no vales established here.
In the depths of Drownbark Forest is the Druj town of Orieb, a settlement surrounding a sprawling and labyrinthine Druj palace. From discussions with the local populace, it appears that Orieb was the seat of one of the Druj clans that dominated Ossium - the Bone Serpent clan - ruled with an iron fist by an ancient Buruk Tepel named ''Bleakbane''. The Buruk Tepel herself, and her apprentices, have not been accounted for. The town is composed of stinking hovels, populated by a number of freed orc and human slaves, who have thus far cooperated fully with the liberating forces. There only real concentration of Varushkans in the region is centred here - three [[Bands]] of wagon raiders from Karsk and southern [[Volodmartz]] have congregated, creating a small enclave surrounding the Stinking Market where they sell valuables wrenched not only from the depths of the Drownbark Forest but also from daring raids across the border into Farweald and the [[Forest of Ulnak]]. More information about the Stinking Market can be found in the Thousands or more wind of fortune.
In Autumn 383YE, scouts reported the presence of something significantly more dangerous than even Druj bandits in the Drownbark Forest. There is at least one group of horrible unliving servants - tormented souls bound into the tormented corpses of Dawnish knights - in the Drownbark Forest. It's not clear if they are part of a larger force, or whether like the tormented souls of [[Reikos]] they have broken free of the control of their Druj masters. Regardless, the scouts deliver warnings to settlers in the area to give them a wide berth.
### Echofell
* Quality: Forest
The Echofell was the home of the Amber Scorpion clan of the Druj, and the site of the Tower of the Scorpion. The first real engagement of the invasion took place here when Imperial forces besieged the tower during torrential rain. The [[Fortification]] was ultimately overrun and captured by the Empire and was garrisoned by a small force of Varushkans. A posting to the Tower of the Scorpion was seen as a particularly unpalatable tour of service by most Varushkan soldiers until it was destroyed by invading armies out of The Mallum in Summer 384YE. While most of the Druj have been driven from the area eastward in to the the Forest of Ulnak, the woods are home to a disturbing number of unpleasant insects and poisonous creatures that seem to enjoy feasting on human blood. During the Summer Solstice 385YE the Imperial Senate, following an [[Appraisal]], voted to authorise supplying equipment to the Dreamers of the Dark Forest - a sept who chose to not relocate to Skarsind. Both the Varushkan and Highborn National [[Assembly]] voted to enact Mandates to enCourage Military units to train the sept which has seen the Dreamers push the Druj guerrillas from the region.
### Galath Fields
Along with Bittershore, the Galath Fields represent the only real open ground in Ossium. The soil here is rich, and the damp grasslands are scattered with smaller settlements belonging to native orcs, most of whom are cautiously welcoming of the Imperial presence. There are two larger settlements - the town of Lomaa which sits above the Crawling Depths, and Ketsov, home to the human clan of the same name. As with Bittershore, the Galath Fields have proved popular with Varushkan settlers, especially those from wealthy [[Karov]] looking to start new vales in the comparative safety of the new territory.
### Nearweald
* Quality: Forest
One of the last regions of Ossium conquered, Nearweald borders onto Farweald - the northernmost part of [[The Barrens]]. The woodlands here are dense, and broken up by maze-like game trails, and overgrown pathways. Most of the Druj who inhabited this area retreated into the Barrens once it was clear Ossium was lost, but as with the Webwood there are still a few small bands living in the depths of the woods who emerge sporadically to raid Varushkan settlements. These raids are becoming more and more sporadic with the completion of the fortified barracks offering more security to the scattered vales.
A particularly bloody-minded band of settlers from Livardz in Volodmartz have claimed an extensive section of the forest and despite some opposition from the bandits have established a relatively secure vale here named Karantzy from which they are engaging in extensive logging. The timber from the Nearweald is being sold to other settlers, and has proved extremely popular for helping new settlers establish vales across Bittershore and Galath Fields. Boyar ''Irina Karantzy'' and her allies are making money hand over fist. Not only from the trees themselves - Nearweald is particularly rich in precious ambergelt that has a particularly vibrant crimson colouration that is already being touted as "blood amber".
Nearweald is also home to perhaps the largest gathering of orcs in Varushka. The ''sept'' of the Menrothat live in small settlements across the region, as well as in several neighbouring regions. The ''sept'' includes some of those who tend the Bone Hives in Echofell, as well as members in small settlements in the eastern Drownbark Forest, the western Forest of Ulnak, and the northern Barrens. These orcs are particularly cautious, and seem almost supernaturally adept at concealing their true numbers from the Imperials. There has been only limited contact with them since the territory was [[Liberated]] from the Druj, primarily between them and the Imperial Orcs and Navarr.
### Webwood
* Quality: Forest, Otkodov,  Under threat
The Webwood is a dank, almost impenetrable forest with few trails. As its name implies it is home to large numbers of spiders - many of them either very large or very Venomous. There is a well-hidden structure in its depths which apparently serves as a temple or lair for orcs dedicated to the service of the Eternal [[Arhallogen]] dubbed the Temple of Arhallogen. It is not entirely clear if the orcs are really Druj or not, or whether they are an example of a nation that managed to maintain some level of independence despite living in a land oppressed by the Druj. The orcs have kept very much to themselves, but there have nonetheless been disappearances reported in the area which is littered with traps and deadfalls that pose a constant threat to travellers and settlers.
The "temple" has been recognised by the [[Imperial Conclave]] as being the property of Arhallogen, and Varushkan settlers are discouraged from attempting to establish vales here. This has not stopped the most ambitious or bloody minded from starting to build along the southern and western margins. Webwood is perhaps the most dangerous and least explored region of Ossium, and there are known to be at least two bands of Druj bandits in the depths who periodically emerge to raid Varushkan settlements, reaching as far afield as the north-western Galath Fields and the northern Echofell.
During the Winter Solstice 383YE the Imperial Senate ceded the region to the Thule as part of a treaty. Presumably they will take steps to deal with the dangerous orcs here.
## Special Qualities
Several regions of Ossium have special qualities that relate to the problems faced by the Varushkans when bringing the former Druj-dominated territory into The Empire. While the qualities are tied to specific regions, their impact covers the entire territory - so the ''under-developed'' quality effects commissions anywhere in Ossium, not only when those commissions are built in the regions specifically tied to the quality. In some ways, these qualities are similar to the army-movement restricting ''passes'' in territories such as [[Spiral]] and Skarsind - a way to create plot but do so in a player-facing way that characters can discuss in-character; so the players can see where the problems are; they can see when they've been successful at addressing a problem; and they can see how much work remains to be done. It's intended that these qualities be possible to remove through player action - and the [[Winds of Fortune]] offer several ways that could be done.
### Under-developed
* Bittershore, Galath Fields, Nearweald
Under the Druj, Ossium was a wild territory with minimal infrastructure. There were towns and villages, but the orcs seemed to take a perverse pleasure in ensuring that their subjects had as few comforts as possible. Roads are sparse, and barely maintained, and there was very little trade between settlements. This causes problems for The Empire - transporting materials where they need to go, and securing local labour to help build new commissions are both very challenging.
Over Winter 383YE, the under-developed quality was removed from the region of Nearweald as recounted in the Blood makes noise wind of fortune. Following the Spring Equinox 384YE, the under-developed quality was removed from Galath Fields as a result of the answer to the Isember question.
Game Effect: For each region of Ossium that has the ''under-developed'' quality, the labour costs for any Commission in the territory - including fortifications and armies - are increased by a fifth. Thanks to the efforts of The Empire, only one region currently has the quality meaning costs are increased by one-fifth; should the Empire successfully remove the quality from another region the extra costs would be removed entirely.
### Underpopulated
* Nearweald, Drownbark Forest, Echofell
The population of Ossium is made up of two distinct groups. The Varushkan settlers are primarily based around Bittershore and the Galath Fields, and are busy establishing new vales and exploring the opportunities represented by the territory. The former subjects of the Druj, both human and orc, are mostly keeping to themselves. Many orcs have left the territory to find new lives far from The Mallum. Most have gone to Skarsind, but a few have settled in the marshes of Holberg.
The original inhabitants who remain are deeply suspicious of the Empire, and afraid that they may be punished when the Druj inevitably return. Great swathes of the territory are almost entirely unpopulated - especially the eastern forests and marshes. While Varushkan territories are often sparsely populated compared to other Imperial nations, the lack of population here is particularly notable.
Game Effect: While any region has the ''underpopulated'' quality, Ossium cannot support an Imperial army. If the quality were removed from all regions that currently possess it, the number of armies Varushka can support would increase to four, assuming they did not lose significant amounts of territory elsewhere.
### Under threat
* Drownbark Forest, Echofell, Webwood
While the Druj have lost their grip on the territory, they have by no means been entirely driven out. The forests and marshes provide copious hiding places from which the cruel orcs are free to launch raids against both Imperial settlers and former subjects. These guerrilla forces melt away when faced with serious opposition, retreating to their hidden camps, and returning after a respite to attack from another, unexpected direction. While they remain in force, Ossium can never be fully secure.
Game Effect: While a region has the ''Under threat'' quality, the orcs of The Mallum and their allies are considered to have a Beachhead in that region. This means their armies will not suffer the usual penalty to take the first region in an enemy territory, as long as they are attacking a region with the ''under threat'' quality.
Senate Elections|Senator_for_Ossium|Territory=Ossium|Season=Winter
## OOC Notes
* The Bonewood and the Webwood have been ceded to the Thule. The rest of the territory belongs to Varushka, meaning Ossium is an Imperial territory.
* The Iron Roads are a Great work the provides a share of extra materials to Forest owners in the territory. They also improve the production of the Vale of the Sunless Depths.
* Fljajokep in Bonewood is a rank one fortification controlled by the Thule.
* All Forest personal resources in Ossium produce 2 additional measures of the base material.
* Any Commission intended to increase production of metals in Ossium is twice as expensive
## Further Reading
* 382YE Autumn Equinox Winds of [[War]] - the original invasion of Ossium
* [[Chilled to the bone]] - first Wind of Fortune covering the Crawling Depths, Ketsov, and the Sand Fishers
* 382YE Winter Solstice Winds of War - Echofell, Webwood, and the Tower of the Scorpion
* [[Crafted from torment]] - second Wind of Fortune providing more details of the population and the question of assignment
* 383YE Spring Equinox Winds of War - Nearweald and the Drownbark Forest
* [[A strange land]] - third Wind of Fortune providing suggestions for ways to develop the territory more
* [[Weight of the world]] - fourth Wind of Fortune providing [[Insight]] into the situation with the orcs of Ossium
* Autumn Update - an update of the situation in Ossium for Autumn 383YE
* 383 Winter Solstice Winds of War - The Fire of the South escort orc refugees to Skarsind
* Beyond the light - fifth Wind of Fortune, providing opportunities to secure the territory
* Thousands or more - partner to the above, a Wind of Fortune about opportunities and [[Spoils of War]] in Ossium
* Blood makes noise - Spring 384YE detailing the success of ''Beyond the light'' and detailing more opportunities to remove negative qualities
* The Ketsov Family - Notes about the Ketsov of Ossium