---
IgnoreLinking: False
Tags: ['Gazetteer', 'The-League', 'Imperial-Territory']
Title: Sarvos
draft: False
revision_date: 2023-12-20 10:23:20+00:00
revision_id: 106533
---

## Overview
[[Sarvos]] refers both to a [[Territory|territory]], and the city that sits at the heart of that territory. Founded long ago by Highborn colonists, it seceded from that nation during the civil [[War|war]] and has remained independent ever since. 
The city itself is constructed on an island just off the coast, like a beacon of light in the water. It sees itself as the cultural centre of [[The League|the League]], and arguably the whole Empire. Once, the many mirrors found upon the roofs of the city, said to "sparkle like gems" during the [[Day|day]], gave the city the common epithet of ''Jewelled City''. Folk legend suggested that if the mirrors were shattered the city would surely fall... and then in [[Summer]] 383YE this belief was put to the rest when the the Hag Queen cursed the city. After a period of uncertainty, the people of the city have reforged their identity, drawing strength from calamity, and become the City of Masks.
[[Sarvos]] is as driven as any city in [[The League|the League]], but art is its true passion. They claim to have invented theatre, a ludicrous claim but believable in a city graced with so many theatre-houses. They are certainly the originators of the [[Magician|magician]] [[Troupes]] that are now commonplace throughout the [[League]] and they are usually the centre of League performance [[Magic|magic]]. Not just theatre is popular however; there are rival opera houses whose bitter divisions are every bit as keen as those of the leading theatre troupes. Several wealthy merchant princes have endowed their collections of art on the city and there are public galleries where the most beautiful pictures and sculptures can be viewed in exchange for a ring or two. 
The land around the [[Bay of Catazar]] is lush and fertile, with low flood-plains; olive farms and prime grazing lands fed by the waters of four rivers: the lazy Couros that flows along the border of [[Highguard]] and [[Urizen]]; the flighty Scorrero, whose capricious nature has drowned many an unwary river captain on its course through [[The Brass Coast|the Brass Coast]]; the broad-banked Gancio, solid and well-defended; and the furious Vassa that flows down through [[Tassato]].  The four rivers are central [[Characters|characters]] in the art and [[Folklore|folklore]] of the city. All the classic literature and theatre includes them in one form or another, whether as central [[Characters|characters]] or “clowns” during the interludes. A popular game between playwrights and critics is to conceal the characters in some way and [[Challenge|challenge]] the critic to locate them.
## Recent [[History]]
[[Sarvos]] was the birth-place of the [[Empress Giselle]], who held [[The Throne|the Throne]] between 331YE and 346YE. Sometimes called the ''Unwise'', she was a shameless League patriot who put the needs of her nation above those of [[The Empire|the Empire]]. Unlike the vast majority of Emperors and Empresses, after her death she was interred in a marble tomb in the Alvetti [[Guild|guild]] estates in [[Caricomare]], where she remained until [[The sack of Sarvos]] in 380YE. After the [[Grendel]] attempted to steal her body, and destroyed her tomb, there was discussion about where best to reinter her. In the end, [[The Senate|the Senate]] decided to inter her in a new tomb in [[Temeschwar]].
In 348YE, the city was struck by a terrible tempest that did significant damage to many coastal parts of the city and lead to the flooding and eventual sinking of the southern district of [[Caricomare]]. Reclaiming the ruined quarter of the city was deemed "too expensive" by the [[Senate]] - a move that some bitter Sarvosans believed to have been intended as a punishment for [[The League|the League]] and the city of [[Sarvos]] in particular, in the wake of the unpopular Empress's death. In 378YE, on the thirtieth anniversary of the destruction, work finally began to regenerate the ruined district thanks to generous donations and hard work by the citizens of [[Sarvos]]. Also of note is the establishment of the Asavean [[Embassy]] in Sarvos. [[Senator]] Mirislav (who was also responsible for the restoration of [[Caricomare]]) arranged the establishment of a formal [[Embassy|embassy]] with the [[Asavean Archipelago]] in 378YE.
At the Summer Solstice 383YE, the the Hag Queen cursed Sarvos, shattering every mirror in the Jewelled City. The [[Curse|curse]] did more than just [[Shatter|shatter]] the city's mirrors, it tore the soul of the city, shredding its identity. What is the City of Mirrors... without any mirrors? Some feared that the City was doomed - superstition has long held that if the mirrors were shattered then the city would surely fall. 
However the greatest city in the world is not so easily destroyed, and the people of Sarvos were soon at work 
developing bold ideas to renew the city's identity and purpose. Support quickly coalesced around the ideas presented by House Bourné for Sarvos to become the City of Masks. After a short delay, [[The League|the League]] National [[Assembly]] endorsed the [[Mandate|mandate]] urging Sarvosans to embrace their new identity with a [[Greater majority|greater majority]].
Now Sarvos has become the City of Masks. The doom that threatened the city is [[Gone|gone]], and the Hag Queen has lost. She destroyed the mirrors, hoping to mar the city's beauty.  In its place the city is fast gaining a new reputation as a place of elegance and refinement, renown for exquisite couture and high fashion, and famed for the grace and style of the people who live there. The city has always seen many visitors from foreign lands; only Siroc does more trade with far-flung lands. As the City of Masks, it is fast being talked about as the most elegant and sophisticated city in the known world.
## Major Features
### Sarvos
The city of Sarvos covers the island of Cigno and in some places extends into the Bay on sturdy pontoons. It is widely said to be one of the most beautiful cities in the world - when the sun strikes the mirrored roofs at sunrise and sunset, the whole island glows like a star. Space is at a premium in Sarvos - cramped streets flow between soaring towers, choked with merchants, tradesmen and students. There are no "green spaces" in Sarvos - the island is simply to crowded and any parks that might once have existed have been built over in recent centuries. To [[Combat|combat]] this, the citizens often cultivate roof gardens and window-boxes, bringing beautiful and practical plants into their homes. The richest Sarvosan [[Guilds|guilds]] maintain estates on the mainland, allowing the to "get away from it all" when the press of humanity becomes too much. The city is divided into several distinct districts, of which the more famous is probably the dockside ward of [[Caricomare]].
Fire is a constant worry. While there has never been a significant blaze in Sarvos but many residents have regular nightmares that a major fire could destroy the entire city before it could be dealt with (although as one Tassatan wit said, "''The whole place is so damp it would take a great deal of effort to set fire to even a small tower.''")
It is the site of Diora University, a prominent seat of learning that specialises in researching obscure topics for money. Here can also be found Capodomus Cathedral, one of the largest religious structures in [[The Empire|the Empire]], a towering monument encrusted with precious [[Materials|materials]] and objets d’art. It is most famous for its theatres, opera houses, galleries and conservatories - it is truly a city where art is held up as the highest aspiration of humanity. 
Sarvos is also a byword for excellent food, and every bar, street vendor and hostelry prides itself on providing its own speciality snack: perhaps a particular way of spicing ham, or salting and smoking beef, or an excellent dipping sauce for vegetables. It is said that an epicure can dine out every [[Night|night]] of their life in Sarvos and never eat the same meal twice - it is also home to a great many establishments that serve dishes native to distant nations, often in settings designed to cleverly evoke the sensation of actually being in one of those nations. 
Sarvos is also a highly cosmopolitan city - it is common to hear a half-dozen tongues being spoken in the markets and bazaars. Captains from across the known world come to trade with [[The Empire|the Empire]] here - there are docks and quays all around the circumference of the island. It is also a popular stopping-off point for ships that have travelled from the central Empire before they embark on journeys to more distant lands.
At the [[Winter]] Solstice 383YE, the [[Imperial Senate]] authorised the construction of the Sweetwater Springs, improving existing wells and building a series of new ones strategically across the city. This ready access to water not only secures the City of Masks against fire and arson, but also helps the [[Herb|herb]] gardens of the city optimise their irrigation, producing a bounty of [[Herbs|herbs]] split between them each season.
### Diora University
A prominent seat of learning, Diora University has long supplemented the fees paid by students by researching obscure topics for money. Following the [[Grendel]] invasion, and subsequent liberation, the University apparently encountered financial difficulties. These monetary concerns are now resolved thanks to generous donations from citizens of [[The League]] and [[Highguard]] during the [[Autumn]] Equinox 382YE, which has seen a degree of renovation and expansion of the university.
The old buildings have now been joined by the Lorenzo "La Volpe" School of Architecture, opened by the master [[Architect|architect]] himself in a grand ceremony during which he received an honorary degree. He gave regular lectures before his death, and his support brought a great deal of attention to the new school. Significant donations also came from [[Highguard]] - Dagon of the Shattered Tower, Asael of Cantiarch's Hold, the Virtues of Autumn [[Coven]], and Hepzibah of Reumah's [[Redoubt]] all made considerable contributions. As a consequence, the main historical library has been renamed the ''Shattered Tower Reliquary'', while major renovations to the faculty for theology and metaphysics have seen the wing that houses the main lecture halls for religious studies renamed ''[[Permion]]'s Thoughts''.
### The Colossus of Sarvos
A wonder of the modern world the Colossus of Sarvos is the first sight of the City of Masks seen by ships approaching from the [[Bay of Catazar]]. The statue itself is some seventy-five feet of stone on a granite plinth twenty-five feet high. It is placed on a small island at the mouth of the main harbour, and maintained by a small group of dedicated stonemasons. For a brief while the the statue bore the distinctive countenance of [[Empress Giselle]], but that [[Enchantment|enchantment]] faded after a year.
After the [[Spring]] Equinox 383YE, with the support of the League [[National Assembly|national assembly]], Astrid Fjellrevening Rezia di [[Tassato]] consecrated the Colossus with a dose of true [[Liao|liao]] with the Partner of Greatness. This act greatly increased the influence of the Colossus, and secured its status as a wonder of the known world.
The plinth that supports the immense statue bears inscriptions commemorating the liberation of Sarvos from the [[Grendel]] in Summer 380YE. Significant space has been dedicated to honouring those who fell during the fighting to defend, and later recapture, the city.
### Asavean [[Embassy]]
Following the Spring Equinox 378YE, construction began on an official [[Embassy]] to the [[Asavean Archipelago]] under the watchful eye of Miroslav, [[Senator]] for Sarvos. Shortly after the [[Embassy]] was complete, accusations of excessive piracy from Nemoria lead to a minor international incident, but a sizeable gift organised by the [[Senator]] for [[Temeschwar]] helped smooth over the growing conflict between [[Asavea]] and [[The Empire|the Empire]]. There is now an [[Ambassador|ambassador]] in residence, and an influx of Asavean [[Traders|traders]] has lead to several luxurious goods from the far west becoming more freely available on the streets of Sarvos; in turn, [[The Empire|the Empire]] has appointed an [[Ambassador to Asavea]] of their own.
### Suranni Embassy
During the Spring Equinox 379YE, the Senate commissioned the construction of an official embassy to the [[Iron Confederacy]]; work was completed shortly before the Summer Solstice. The building is particularly severe by Sarvosan standards; a circular granite and marble keep surrounded by six stubby towers.
### [[Caricomare]]
On the south side of Cigno, Caricomare was for thirty years a ruined and abandoned suburb of Sarvos, destroyed by an Autumn storm during the equinox of 348 YE. Today, however, the once devastated district has been restored and is once again centre of commerce and culture. 
### The Blood Red Quays Art Gallery
This extravagant structure was commissioned by Magdelena Alanga di Sarvos, in the wake of the [[Opportunity]] offered by the potent [[Night magic]] [[Enchantment]] that blanketed the Empire toward the end of 380YE. Paid for by The Bloody Butchers [[Guild]] of [[Temeschwar]], it stands on the harbour front of Caricomare. The Blood Red Quays Art Gallery is one of the most prominent structures in Sarvos, providing inspiration and encouraging [[Pride]] in citizens across the territory.
### Our Lady of [[Pride]]
This [[Fortification|fortification]] stands in Foracci. It was commissioned by the [[Imperial Senate]] in Autumn 380YE. It was completed shortly before the Winter Solstice 381YE. During Autumn 382YE the [[Imperial Master of Works]] commissioned additional work to further improve the [[Fortification|fortification]] - which benefitted from the efforts of vigilant citizens inspired by the creation of a place of [[Pilgrimage|pilgrimage]] at the Silent [[Sentinel]] in [[Casinea]]. Work was completed following the Summer Solstice 383YE.
### [[The Spider]]'s Dream
An elegant bridge spans the river Vassa here, connecting Trivento to [[The Brass Coast|the Brass Coast]]. It is a marvellous piece of engineering that resembles a spider's web. There is a toll to pay, or you can take the long way around. Unfortunately, time has not been kind to the Spider's Dream. Resources initially used to maintain it were siphoned off in the time of [[Emperor Walter]], and the bridge became increasingly dangerous to cross. In Spring 377YE, however, the [[Imperial Senate]] took steps to ensure its restoration to full functionality - reinstating the [[Imperial Title]] of Spider's Tollkeep in the process and heading off potentially unpleasant implications for the people of both Sarvos and [[Madruga]].
Later, in Spring 380YE, [[Grendel]] orcs attached to the forces involved in [[The sack of Sarvos]] made an attempt to take advantage of unusually high flooding in the river as part of an attempt to destroy the bridge entirely, cutting the [[Freeborn]] territories off from the rest of the Empire. They were stopped by the brave action of Imperial [[Heroes|heroes]], and the bridge preserved - and along with it the ability for armies to pass into the south-western Empire from Sarvos and [[Tassato]], and vice versa.
### Lorenzo's [[Legacy]] of [[Pride]]
Spread across the entire territory of Sarvos are red stone [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stele stelae]  adorned with images of suns and flags, surmounted by a pair of crossed butcher's cleavers forged of pure [[Mithril|mithril]]. Inscriptions around the base emphasise the virtues of [[Ambition]], [[Prosperity]], and [[Pride]]. A central, large stone stands in the City of Masks itself, in the middle of Bertram's Square - an open air market not far from the cleaver [[Gate|gate]] that marks the terminus of the Blood Red Roads. Commissioned in Autumn 381YE by Silas di Sarvos, an Imperial Wayleave bearer, and paid for by  Lorenzo “La Volpe” Macelliao von [[Temeschwar]], these crimson monoliths help to harness the flows of mana through Sarvos.
## Regions
### Bocche
Quality: Coastal
This western region shows some influences of [[The Brass Coast|the Brass Coast]]. A major highway passes through Bocche to [[Madruga]], passing over the marvellous suspension bridge, the Spider's Dream. On the eastern side of the bridge is the town of Trivento. Once Trivento had ambitions to become a city to rival Sarvos, but this was before the bridge effectively removed their control of the Vassa crossing. Centuries later there is still some bitterness; Sarvosan sophisticates love to characterise inhabitants of Trivento as "country cousins", while the broadsheets of Trivento regularly depict Sarvos proper as a hive of vice and corruption that needs to be washed away. The people of [[Tassato]] are known to gleefully poke both sides of this ancient enmity - and to be quietly pleased that there is not a second city on the Vassa. The establishment of [[College of the Liberated]] here in early 380YE went some way towards revitalising the economy of Trivento - as did [[The sack of Sarvos]].
### Cigno
Qualities: City, Coastal
This is where the City of Masks, Sarvos proper, is found. It spreads across the entire island, and in some places extends a short distance into the bay on sturdy quays and pontoons. On the southern side of the island is the bustling mercantile district of Caricomare - newly restored by the [[Imperial Senate]].
### Foracci
The wide plains and scattered woodlands of Foracci are the site of many "country estates" owned by guilds and wealthy individuals from Sarvos. Some bring additional profit to their owners, maintaining  farms or woodland preserves. Examples include the hamlet of Aversa, known for strong red wines and cheeses and home to the well-to-do Corvinoscuri [[Family|family]] (and also the location of the Wellspring of Jade), or the Signori d'Argento Vineyards planted at the outskirts of Aversa Estate. While the region appears on the outside to be reasonably idyllic, there are enough nooks and crannies that travellers here are occasionally confronted with unscrupulous bandits, and most of the estates maintain a small cadre of guards in case these bandits become too ambitious. The wealth of Foracci is protected by Our Lady of [[Pride]], a [[Fortification|fortification]] built in Winter 381YE.
Upriver along the Gancio is Rodez, more of an extended suburb of Sarvos than a settlement in its own right. Its harbour is alive with many-oared craft of all sizes; river-boats stopping off from the north, freighters from foreign lands and pleasure-cruisers carrying the wealthy from Sarvos to their inland estates. Many overland visitors to Sarvos stop here to take a ferry to the island. On the outskirts of Rodez stands the famous Aldo di Saverio private hospital and the beautiful Emilio’s Herbarium for [[Anvil]] Hospital.
The banks of the Gancio in Foracci once served as the nesting grounds for the colonies of huge, white cranes that picked their way through the reed-beds of the river. Sometimes seen by the people of Sarvos as beautiful symbols of the city's Pride, other times as bloody nuisances, the population of Gancio cranes was nearly obliterated during [[The sack of Sarvos|the sack of Sarvos]] in 380YE. [[Grendel]] raiders and looters, pushing further upriver from the occupied city, ruthlessly hunted and butchered the cranes for their meat, feathers and eggs; in the aftermath, so few adult [[Birds|birds]] were left that their future was in grave doubt. However, following the use of [[Dramaturgy]] and [[Hearth magic|hearth magic]] by League performers of the Four Rivers Theatre and Single Ring Strolling Players, the colonies have survived the worst of the disaster and begun the long, slow path to recovery. It [[Will|will]] be years, even decades, before the 'white ships of the Gancio' are restored to their former numbers, but for many inhabitants of the city these proud cranes have come to represent the resilience and determination of Sarvos in the aftermath of the sack.
### Riposi
Riposi is a flat, open land with poor, chalky soil. The few farms here tend to own large herds of sheep and goats, and little else. Riposi was at one time known for the cleverness of its wolves and foxes, but in recent decades both species have been hunted to the point where they are rarely seen. The plains are always described as "mournful" or "gloomy" - cold winds regularly roar in off the Bay, and the influence of nearby [[Necropolis]] helps contribute to the [[General|general]] atmosphere of sadness and desperation. A phrase that sees vogue in Sarvos from time to time refers to someone as being "as poor as a Riposi dirt farmer''" - which explains why few guilds admit to having holdings here. In the days before [[The Orc Rebellion|the orc rebellion]], large numbers of slaves worked here and it was the site of a bloody confrontation between the revolting orcs and Imperial forces. [[The Battlefield|The battlefield]] here has become a minor site of [[Pilgrimage|pilgrimage]] for some [[Imperial Orcs]].
In the far east of Riposi, where it touches the coast, is the large cave system known as Orphan’s Haven. It takes its name from a tale that two shipwrecked [[Children|children]] found a fortune in ancient pearls here, stashed by someone long-forgotten. Upon being rescued by local fisherfolk, they used the greater part of their wealth to finance a home for orphans in Sarvos in the name of [[The Little Mother]]. The cave itself contains carvings from lost Terunael, and some people believe it was used in pre-Imperial times as a covered port.
### Uccelini
Quality: Coastal
Uccelini extends along the southern coast, and includes a number of small and medium-sized islands that cluster along the northern shores of the [[Bay of Catazar]]. Many of these islands are uninhabited, or the site of estates or [[Business]] concerns that have long-since fallen into [[Ruin|ruin]]. The remaining estates here tend to be quite well fortified - they need to be able to endure occasional raids by Grendel pirates that slip past the Freeborn corsairs.
The highest point along the coastline from Calvos to [[Sanctuary]], Glass Point has a look-out point and a beacon set on a high tower above the cliff. A small town has grown up around it that shares its name. Some sailors who spent a great deal of time away from shore have adopted the beacon of Glass Point as a tattoo. The rich mana [[Sinecure]] known as Glass Point Cove is assumed to be somewhere in the vicinity of Glass Point - although its precise location is not public knowledge.
Some ship captains prefer to trade out of Glass Point rather than Sarvos proper, and those that do have a reputation for smuggling and dealing with [[Barbarians|barbarians]] and miscreants in search of a profit - they have taken recent decisions in the Senate very poorly.
Senate Elections|Senator_for_Sarvos|Territory=Sarvos|Season=Summer
## Strategic Considerations
* The damage to the Spider's Dream bridge hampers movement between Sarvos and [[Madruga]]
The damage to the Spider's Dream bridge presents significant difficulties to armies trying to move between Sarvos and [[Madruga]] (or vice versa). Any army that does so must immediately stop in the other territory, even if they still have movement remaining. Repairing the Spider's Tollkeep [[Will|will]] require the Senate to [[Commission|commission]] an [[Appraisal]] to determine how best to replicate the genius of the suspension bridge's original [[Architect|architect]] without damaging its integrity.
## OOC Notes
* All the regions of Sarvos are under the control of the League (and by extension, the Empire) making Sarvos a staunchly Imperial territory.
* Our Lady of Pride is a rank two [[Fortification]].
* Between them the College of the [[Liberated]] and the Colossus of Sarvos great works provide a total of 1750 rings shared between all League owners of a Business in Sarvos.
* The Blood Red Quays Art Gallery is a [[Great work]] that provides 15 [[Liao]] and 30 votes in the [[Imperial Synod]] each season, spread amongst those citizens of Sarvos dedicated to Pride who own congregations.
* Lorenzo's [[Legacy]] of Pride is a [[Great work]] that provides 37 mana crystals each season, spread amongst those citizens of Sarvos who own mana sites.
* The Sweetwater Springs is a [[Great work]] that provides 45 drams of [[Cerulean Mazzarine|cerulean mazzarine]] and 30 of [[True Vervain|true vervain]], spread amongst those citizens of Sarvos who own [[Herb|herb]] gardens