---
IgnoreLinking: False
Tags: ['Gazetteer']
Title: Sea of Snow
aliases: ['Sea_of_Snow']
draft: False
revision_date: 2023-05-27 22:33:52+00:00
revision_id: 101131
---

## Overview
The cold [[Sea of Snow]] lies north of [[The Empire|the Empire]], and is named by the Winterfolk. It is known for chunks of ice and icebergs that can crush a ship. There are said to be all kinds of strange beasts in the [[Sea of Snow]] - massive [[Cambion|cambion]]-whales with curling horns, and seahemoths with the upper bodies of mammoths and the lower bodies of [[Black and white|black and white]] fish-beasts, and things like seals but the size of oxen with massive fangs. It stretches past [[Otkodov]], and technically the Gullet is part of it.
A project to map the [[Sea of Snow]] was funded by the [[Imperial Senate]] during the [[Autumn]] Equinox 384YE, and completed shortly before the [[Winter]] Solstice of the same year following extensive contributions by Imperial ship captains. The information gleaned was made publicly available shortly after the Winter Solstice 384YE.
### A note about the [[Maps|maps]]
The [[Maps|maps]], and the details they provide, are insufficient to allow the use of [[Ritual|ritual]] [[Magic|magic]] to scry on these territories. Furthermore, there is no suggestion that the features detailed are everything to be found in the [[Territory|territory]] in question - they are simply what could be observed from the sea with a reasonable margin of risk.
## The Sea of Snows
The Sea of Snows, named by the Winterfolk, is cold and lonely. The only nations that [[The Empire|the Empire]] knows of that it shares the coastline with are the [[Faraden]] and the [[Jotun]]; both of whom have a healthy distrust for the sea which often borders on fear. 
Those fears are not entirely misplaced. This is a sea of monsters; massive [[Cambion|cambion]]-whales with curling horns, seahemoths with the upper bodies of mammoths and the lower bodies of [[Black and white|black and white]] fish-beasts, and things like seals but the size of oxen with massive fangs. The cold black waters are treacherous and filled with danger, especially for the unwary. 
There are two [[Jotun]] Kingdoms, Narkyst lies to the South of the Gullet, while Kalsea includes all the [[Jotun]] lands to the north. The lands of the [[Faraden]] are found further south, beyond Narkyst, but what lies beyond them is unknown. North of Kalsea is nothing but the frozen wastes of Tsirku, but what lies west of the [[Jotun]] kingdoms?
## The [[Jotun]]
The Jotun territories bordering the [[Sea of Snow]] are split into two great kingdoms. The southern Jotun are ruled by Gudmundur Arason King of Narkyst, and Jarl-of-Jarls. Narkyst has two territories lying on the [[Sea of Snow]] – [[Hordalant]] and Ankashun. The lands of the southern Jotun tend to be warmer than those of the north and the traditional Jotun red tunics are dyed a lighter hue than those commonly found in Kalsea. The climate is similar to [[Kallavesa]]. Pleasant enough during the [[Summer|summer]] but bitter in the winter.
The northern Jotun are ruled by Yrsa Jansdóttir, Queen of Kalsea, and Jarl-of-Jarls. Yrsa has dominion over three territories on the Sea of Snow; [[Skallahn]], [[Tromsa]] and Bryadvik. The weather here is cold and snow and ice cover the ground until the [[Spring]] thaws. 
Like all the Jotun, the people of Narkyst and Kalsea fear the sea and they have few coastal settlements and very little in [[The Way|the way]] of ports or boats. There is however an island territory, Fjorknae, which faces Bryadvik across the Blood Straits. According to local legends, Ulfur jumped across the straits carrying an ox, a sheep and a hare in each hand. Given the waters are almost twenty miles wide at the narrowest point, the story is clearly little more than a fable.
### Ankashun
Ankashun lies between [[Hordalant]] in the North and Menendram in the South and encompasses all the land between the Ash Mountains and the sea. Nearly half of the territory seems to be covered in trees, an extension of the the [[Forest]] of Mures that starts in Sigla in [[Hordalant]]. In the north, the coastline is dominated by high cliffs that meet the waters edge. Further south the land drops and the cliffs are replaced by a set islands, mostly isolated, but some joined to the mainland with causeways and even the occasional bridge. The ruler of Narkyst, Gudmundur Arason has his seat is here, in a great heavily-fortified palace that dominates the town of Storhaus. 
### Altafjorden
This region extends off the coast to include well over a dozen islands, not unlike Free Landing in [[Madruga]]. Most are relatively small, but three of them, the Kraken's Teeth are large enough to dominate the small archipelago. Each of the Kraken's Teeth are joined to the mainland by a large stone bridge each wide enough to carry a caravan with a guard on either side. Some of the smaller islands appear to be connected to the Kraken's Teeth by causeways, some of which look to be artificial in nature.
Most of the islands are inhabited by thralls living in small fishing villages, with settlements of farmers and sheep herders on some of the larger islands. The largest of the Kraken's Teeth, Hydyri, has a town that bears the same name, which is the domain of the Hufa Yrsason, the Jarl of Altafjorden. Each of the islands has a watchtower with a beacon ready to be lit should any of the fleets stray too close.
### Arasalpene
All the roads in Ankashun lead to the large town of Storhus in the region of Arasalpene. The town is dominated by the high walls of the palace of Gudmundur Arason, the King of Narkyst, who rules here. Four intimidating towers rise up where the walls meet on corners, each named for one of the faðir. The palace projects strength and power - it is no match for the walls of [[Holberg]], but it is the equal in strength of somewhere like Hanuri in [[Temeschwar]].
The land here is mostly shallow rolling hills, with a mixture of cattle and sheep put out to pasture on them. There are roads that head away from the coast towards the Ash mountains with merchants taking dried beef, mutton, and fish away from the coast and returning with wagons laden with ingots of bronze, steel, [[Mithril|mithril]] and other more precious metals.
### Kvalsund
This thickly wooded region is part of the [[Forest]] of Mures extending down from Sigia in [[Hordalant]] to the north. For the most part the growth is wild, much wilder than Sigia, with packs of wolves running free. The main exception is a region of [[Weirwood|weirwood]] trees known as Ulfur's Rest which has seen heavy logging to clear woodland for farming. The neighbouring settlement is small but industrious, the home of Kansa Jodrison, the Jarl of Kvalsund.
Parts of the [[Forest|forest]] are said to be plagued by snow wolves, terrible slathering beasts with silvery-white fur that hunt and kill lone Jotun [[The Way|the way]] a regular wolf pack hunt deer. They are said to be a [[Curse|curse]] sent by an [[Eternal|eternal]] to test the Jotun, [[Sorin]] or [[Agramant]] perhaps. The Jotun consider slaying one of these beasts to be a feat worthy of a hero, and use the bones of the largest to decorate the doors to their mead halls.
### Varda
The [[Forest]] of Mures gives way here, with much of the land cleared for farming. A handful of large woods remain, apparently kept as hunting preserves for the local Jarl. There is a great temple here, a kirkja dedicated to Skaldir, one of the most important Jotun ancestors. It consists of a series of low rust-coloured stone buildings protected by a series of three great walls, each one taller than the last. Only the strongest Godhi are permitted entrance to the heart of the temple, which is said to house Skaldir's Tomb.
The farms are mostly devoted to cattle, but every homestead includes an orchard, with the largest containing several hundred trees. Pears seem to be the favoured fruit, with apples and cherries a close second. There are well maintained roads running through the region to carry wagons with cargos of oak barrels filled with spirits to distant parts of Narkyst and beyond.
### Kalsea
There are simply too few fleets to mount anything more than the most rudimentary exploration of the coastline of the Jotun Kingdom of Kalsea. The vessels slide quickly past [[Skallahn]], which is well known to Imperial cartographers, but even so they are unable to stay long enough in the lands of the northern Jotun to find out more than uncover the names and rough coastline of the lands of Queen Yrsa's domain.
### Bryadvik
The territory of Bryadvik lies to the west of [[Skallahn]], extending north almost [[All the way|all the way]] to the frozen wastes of Tsirku. The waters near the coastline are intensely salty and surprisingly warm, relatively speaking at least. This is not exactly the [[Bay of Catazar]], but there are no floes on the sea nor ice near the water's edge. It seems like the water here is being kept from freezing by some deep current of warmer water though where it comes from is impossible to tell.
Some parts of Bryadvik are surprisingly flat, with long shallow headlands that jut into the sea forming many sheltered coves and bays. If this were [[The Empire|the Empire]], these inlets would be dotted with ports and harbours but there is nothing like that here. There are settlements, a handful of small towns and villages, each one sporting a tall watchtower, but they are situated well inland. There is just one port in the territory, a heavily fortified town located at the shallow end of a vast open bay. The defences, a great sea wall that sports numerous ballistas and onagers, all face outwards. Clearly the Jotun fear a naval assault more than any army. There is an impressive lighthouse here, but no light is lit while the Imperial captains sail past.
The land here is heavily forested with great swathes of slowly rolling hills covered in tall pine trees some of which appear to be as much as a hundred foot high. There is evidence of a great quarry of some kind, almost certainly for producing [[White granite|white granite]].
### [[Tromsa]]
[[Tromsa]] lies north of [[Skallahn]], but there is a short stretch of its coastline between Bryadvik and Tsirku. The water is colder here, with ice floes a constant danger which makes navigation treacherous. 
It is difficult to see much from deck, and there is not enough time to put to shore, but there are a handful of small settlements all placed well back from the waters edge. Like Bryadvik most of the settlements include [[White granite|white granite]] watchtowers some of which are fifty or sixty feet high. There is also a single large town, or perhaps a small city. Even though it is visible from the coastline, it has no harbour or port facilities, but it does contain a lighthouse and this one ''is'' constantly lit. The city lies in the lee of a snow-covered mountain, the highest point for miles around which shows evidence of substantial mining operations.
The land is higher here, with rough bluffs and rocky promontories, every single one of which sports a stone figure carved from [[White granite|white granite]]. Each is twice the height of an orc or a human and most are covered with moss and lichen. It is impossible to tell what the statues are meant to depict, but one lucky crew is able to get close enough to be certain that the one they are observing looks nothing like an orc or a human. 
### Fjorknae
There is a narrow strip of open water between Bryadvik and Fjorknae which the Imperial Captains have taken to calling the Blood Straits due to the disturbing presence of the carcasses of great white skinned sharks seen floating in the water. These sea beasts, some up to twenty feet long appear frequently, floating belly up with their guts ripped open, [[Birds|birds]] and other creatures feasting on the innards. No-one is able to determine what killed them, nor why they float to the surface rather than sinking to the bottom.
[[On the other side]] of the straits is what looks to be a huge island, though no captain is able to determine that for sure by circumnavigating it. According to the little information [[The Empire|the Empire]] is able to gather, the island is Fjorknae, and is Jotun held, but no-one is able to find out if it pays allegiance to the Queen of Kalsea or the King of Narkyst. There are a handful of small settlements visible from ship, but they look rough and primitive, mostly crude buildings with slate walls and turf rooves.
There are signs of industry however, every settlement appears to have at least one busy-looking forge and the largest has three. There is a flag flying here, a vivid red [[Banner|banner]] depicting a multi-limbed sea-beast of some kind. It looks a lot like a kraken, a creature more commonly associated with the [[Grendel]], although this one looks nothing like the banners flown by the elite [[Grendel]] units, the Kraken's Jaws.
## [[Faraden]]
The nation of [[Faraden]] controls two territories immediately to the South the Jotun Kingdom of Narkyst on the Sea of Snow. Imperial vessels that sail south beyond the Jotun come to Menendram first and eventually to Tujahan if they persevere. It is impossible to ascertain the full extent of the lands of [[Faraden]], but given that Imperial mercenaries previously fought against the Jotun alongside the Faraden in the territory of Tebukan there must be at least one more territory inland.
The climate on the Faraden coast is bracing in Winter with the cold sea air bringing a constant chill and regular downpours in spite of the land being as far south as [[Madruga]] or [[Redoubt]]. Fortunately, the waters are easy to navigate with steady winds and an absence of storms such that the only real danger appears to be the risk of running aground on the many submerged rocks that litter the rough coastline. 
As Faraden and [[The Empire|the Empire]] are not at [[War|war]], Imperial fleets are able to dock here, allowing them to rest and take on supplies. The biggest problem in doing so is usually lack of space for the wharfs are surprisingly small with few berths suitable for large ships. The Faraden are not as wary of the sea as the Jotun - they have small fishing vessels, countless river boats and some large flat vessels with shallow drafts designed to move cargos up and down the coastline. But they have nothing that a [[Freeborn]] captain would call "seaworthy" - none of their ships are large or seaworthy enough to operate out of sight of land and their dock facilities largely reflect these limitations.
### Menendram
Menedram is the first of the two territories claimed by Faraden that Imperial ships encounter as they leave the Gullet and head south past Ankashun. In fact the territory is clearly bitterly contested with the Jotun who hold the northern hills of Talemas and possibly more regions inland. The remainder of the coastline is under Faraden control however, and is nominally ruled over from the Palace of the Frozen [[Night]] by High Lord Mukhali Tchemetzi, leader of the wizard [[Family|family]] of the same name.
The Palace is described as an extraordinary building, constructed entirely from burnished [[Weltsilver|weltsilver]]. The Faraden claim it reflects the sun so brightly, it is impossible to gaze on it when the skies are clear. More likely the building has been clad in some way, but even so, it sounds like an extraordinary sight. Sadly it lies far inland, along trade roads that apparently extend [[All the way|all the way]] to the Empire. 
### Talemas
This hilly region borders Ankashun and is held entirely by the Jotun. The orcs control what appears to be a fairly recently constructed [[Fortification|fortification]], Hergershal, which squats near to the border between Menendram and Ankashun. A few miles to the south is the beginning of the Red Horns which extend across the east of the territory and is home to a network of mines rich in [[Orichalcum|orichalcum]], [[Green iron|green iron]] and [[Mithril|mithril]]. Several captains report seeing caravans, the wagons heavily laden with wains of the valuable metal, being transported back to Narkyst under guard.
The conquered land is ruled from Hergershal by Jarl Herger Uthisdottir - called "the Shining". She is apparently a figure of some contempt amongst the Jotun who consider her to have grown lazy and idle on account of the great wealth her thralls have recovered from the mines in the Red Horns. There are rumours that she only maintains her position due to the support of her wife, Yanti Sharisdottir, a firebrand godhi and childhood friend of King Gudmundur who is said to be more cunning than the Jarl of Kierheim and twice as dangerous if crossed. 
### Pelabuhan
Although Pelabuhan is the only region in Menedram with easy access to the sea, the largest town here Caitun, can barely be called a port. The sprawling docks look impressive at first sight, but there are only five berths broad and deep enough to house vessels the size of an Imperial ship. Still it is the economic heart of Menedram, and while it is no match for one of the great cities of [[The League|the League]] it is easily as as big as Sarcombe or Cargo. It is also clearly bustling and prosperous, with Jotun thralls bringing in caravans weighed down with metals from the Jotun mines in the Red Horns almost every [[Day|day]].
Most of the imported metals are destined for the many forges dotted around the town which prides itself on its blacksmithing. There is a Faraden tradition of a Caitun sword being presented to those adopted into a warrior [[Family|family]], a reflection of the high regard in which Caitun's blacksmiths and artisans are held. Not just weapons are produced here, the forges also do a roaring trade in paraphenalia to provide the [[Magician|magician]] families of the territory with the accoutrements necessary for their ritual practices.
The outlaying land seems lush and fertile, possibly due to regular downpours that blow in from the Sea of Snow. There are fields of wheat, barley and similar crops - the Faraden seem to excel at agriculture as well as animal husbandry, with the markets of Caitun filled with healthy looking cattle and pigs as well as a bewildering array of multicoloured [[Birds|birds]] including quail, pheasants, partridges and grouse. Some of this [[Prosperity|prosperity]] may be magical in nature, Imperial captains spy a number of strange blue skinned heralds in the market place who the locals say are "Raincallers". These creatures are apparently servants of an [[Eternal|eternal]] who acts as something of a patron to the magicians of the Tchemetzi [[Family|family]] helping them to perform powerful Spring magics.
### Sadewnan
Beyond Pelabuhan lies Sadewnan. The land rises quickly here forming harsh, high cliffs that are absolutely filled with nesting seabirds. The industrious Faraden have cut countless paths into the cliff face leading [[All the way|all the way]] down to the rocks below, allowing them to harvest the thick deposits of guano from the base of the cliffs which apparently makes excellent fertilizer. 
There is a great Cathedral here, dedicated to the five Faraden Virtues, [[Courage]], Justice, [[Loyalty]], [[Prosperity]] and [[Pride]]. It is situated in the settlement of Batzorig overlooking the cliffs of Sadewnan. It is an impressive affair, larger even than the Unbound Steel Hall of [[Reikos]], and while it is not so grand as the great Temple of [[The Way|the Way]] in [[Sumaah]], it is big enough to rival almost anything in the Empire. The structure is almost as impressive below ground as above, vast crypts have been excavated below the cathedral to house the bones of the martyrs of Faraden.
### Tujahan
Beyond Menendram, lies the Faraden territory of Tujahan, the furthest point on the Sea of Snow that Imperial ships have yet mapped. There is no sign of any Jotun here, their warriors, [[Fortifications|fortifications]] or thralls. Instead the coastal territory is claimed in its entirety by High Lady Togene Altsanig who rules from the Palace of the Azure Sky. She is allegedly a great rival of the current Lord of the Five Winds and is said to have designs on the title herself.
The coastal regions of Tujahan are mostly flat grasslands that give way slowly to tall peaks as you travel further inland. The sheer cliffs of Sadewnan continue here but for whatever reason there are far fewer seabirds and the cliffs have few if any paths leading down them. Perhaps as a result the land is less fertile, the farms seem less lush than Menendram, the crops are not so tall or golden. Rather than animals and metals, the markets here are dominated by rich fabrics and clothing with [[Traders|traders]] hawking yarns of soft wool, bolts of expensive silk and beautiful garments made from them.
### Tsenher
Beyond the high cliffs of Tsenher is a vast quarry known locally as Gorbeljin's Memory. There is rumoured to be a spontaneous or true [[Consecration|consecration]] within the quarry and the caravans that bring in food and supplies and take away the [[White granite|white granite]] roads are accompanied by scores of pilgrims looking to visit and experience the [[Aura|aura]] for themselves. The Faraden claim the quarry produces only eleven wains of [[White granite|white granite]] each season which seems very little for a quarry of this size.
The other feature of interest is a tall stone tower that looks for all the world like a lighthouse, though it is much too far inland for that. Constructed from white granite the top shines with an unblinking white light that burns day and night. The Faraden say it is a temple of some kind, though not to the virtues - it is apparently home to a being called the Mouth of Infinity. Faraden magicians travel to the tower to consult with the Mouth for it claims to know the future of all things.
### Ondersant
In Ondersant the cliffs fall away to allow the land to gently meet the shore with scores of rough gravel beaches. It is home to the port of Jargalan by far the largest of its kind in Faraden. It is no match for [[Sarvos]] or even Siroc but it is easily the equal of a minor Imperial port like Bramar. Here the docks are filled with all kinds of foreign ships both known and unknown to the Empire; sleek [[Grendel]] [[Traders|traders]] berth alongside vessels from further west.
The town is surrounded by a sturdy wall of white granite that protects the port from any overland approach. There is no sea wall and nothing that might defend against a naval assault, but there are large units of Faraden soldiers equipped with bows and barbed tridents that regularly patrol the dock front day and night. The Palace of the Azure Sky is located in Ondersant, an impressive building of white stone clad in marble. The High Lady refuses to grant audiences to any Imperial citizen so it is impossible to gain entry to the Palace to find out more.
### Hoboriin
Beyond Ondersant lies Hoborin, but this region barely touches the Sea of Snow, a tiny strip of tall inaccessible cliffs. It would barely be [[Worth|worth]] including on a map were it not for the presence of the Colourful [[Spire]], standing close to the shore. A tall lighthouse, as high as any [[Spire|spire]] of [[Urizen]], where the globe at the top seems to scintillate with a hundred different lights during [[Dawn|dawn]] and dusk. Local gossip implies that it functions in a similar way to the Empire's colleges of [[Magic|magic]]. The Faraden are understandably coy about allowing foreigners visiting the [[Spire]] - it is apparently one of the few locations where the families come together to cooperate freely.
There is evidence of a larger settlement further inland in Hoboriin, with well maintained roads heading north, south and east away from the Colourful [[Spire]].