---
IgnoreLinking: False
Tags: ['Gazetteer', 'The-Mallum', 'Druj']
Title: The Mallum
aliases: ['The_Mallum']
draft: False
revision_date: 2024-01-15 20:26:29+00:00
revision_id: 107156
---

## Overview
"[[The Mallum]]" is the name given to the land claimed by the [[Druj]] orcs, east of [[The Empire|the Empire]]. What little reliable information [[The Empire|the Empire]] has about [[The Mallum|the Mallum]] has come from the orcs of the Great [[Forest]]. There are at least four territories considered to form part of [[The Mallum|the Mallum]], and [[The Barrens]] is often considered to represent a fifth.
These are only the lands of [[The Mallum|the Mallum]] that the [[Great Forest Orcs]] know about. They cannot say with certainty if they represent all the lands of the [[Druj]] or not - but they are all the lands that border [[The Barrens|the Barrens]]. They also stress that there are more than just [[Druj]] living in these lands - the [[Druj]] have subject nations who do most of their menial labour - but warn that the spirit of rebellion has been all but snuffed out. Each of these territories is infused with the same miasma that apparently hangs over [[Ossium]], eroding the [[Will|will]] of those who are weak in the face of [[Druj]] oppression.
During the [[Winter]] Solstice 382YE the [[Great Forest Orcs|Great Forest orcs]] offered an [[Opportunity]] to map [[The Mallum|the Mallum]] in more detail. The [[Imperial Senate]] declined the offer.
## [[The Barrens]]
[[The Empire]] already knows a great deal about [[The Barrens]]. The Druj as a nation have always coveted this [[Territory|territory]] and at various points through [[History|history]] have controlled all, some, or none of it. This sprawling land represents not only great wealth but also allows the Druj to move their armies quickly and efficiently between the various territories they control - and the Imperial territory they covet.
## [[Ossium]]
The territory on the far side of [[The Semmerlak]] from [[Dawn]] is called [[Ossium]]. East of [[Karsk]] and north of [[The Barrens|the Barrens]] and [[Holberg]], it has recently been conquered by [[The Empire|the Empire]] and as of the Winter Solstice 382YE is now a Varushkan territory. Despite the conquest, the presence of Varushkan settlers, and the [[Navarr]] walking the [[Trods]] here, large swathes of the territory remain unknown to [[The Empire|the Empire]]. Part of the territory - the northern Bonewood - is under the control of the [[Thule]] of [[Otkodov]].
In [[Autumn]] 382YE, the Empire invaded [[Ossium]]. The armies of [[Dawn]] and [[Varushka]] took the Druj by surprise, and with the aid of [[Thule]] allies, quickly conquered the territory. In Winter 382YE, the [[Imperial Senate]] assigned [[Ossium]] as the fifth Varushkan territory. The Empire actually knows more about Ossium than the Great [[Forest]] orcs. They know it only as a distant land composed of dark, ancient forests. According to the orcs, the Druj intentionally kept them out of Ossium for some reason.
## [[Forest of Ulnak]]
East of Ossium lies the [[Forest of Ulnak]], another heavily forested region that covers the land at the base of the great mountains that touch the sky. The Druj clans here are less insular than those of Ossium, and according to the [[Great Forest Orcs|Great Forest orcs]] there is a great and terrible [[Mine|mine]] cut into the roots of [[The Mountain|the mountain]] where thousands of slaves toil ceaselessly to provide stone for the orcs to build fortresses to protect themselves from some threat they fear to the north. The woods here are also rich in [[Weirwood|weirwood]], according to the Great [[Forest]] orcs. 
When the Druj became aware of their skill at working the precious material many of their elders were forcibly taken to the [[Forest of Ulnak]] to work in the [[Weirwood|weirwood]] groves. Their information is a little out of date, but according to the orcs there is an immense fortress here at the foot of the mountains with terrible dungeons beneath it said to be the home of a powerful buruk tepel whose mastery of the herbal arts of poison and fear is unparalleled.
Following the Autumn Equinox 383YE, the same forces that had previously conquered Ossium (sans their [[Thule]] allies), launched an invasion of the [[Forest of Ulnak]].
In [[Summer]] 385YE, the [[Imperial Spymaster]] announced the construction of a [[Spy network|spy network]] in the territory.
## [[Salt Flats of Sanath]]
To the east of the Barrens, are the [[Salt Flats of Sanath]]. The woodlands in the north give way to broad plains crisscrossed by dark waterways. The ground is damp, and the further east one travels the more water there is. Eventually, one reaches the port of Leen - the [[Great Forest Orcs|Great Forest orcs]] believe it is the largest settlement in the Mallum, controlled by a powerful clan who also dominate the shifting islands to the east of it. The [[Grendel]] are known to visit Leen regularly trading [[Mithril|mithril]] for [[Weirwood|weirwood]].
Following the Summer Solstice 385YE, four [[Imperial armies]] invaded the [[Salt Flats of Sanath]] and managed to establish a foothold in the Sydathian Fens.
## The [[Sarangrave]]
Finally, south of the Barrens is the [[Sarangrave]]. Much of the land here is marshy, or wooded, but the great [[Forest|forest]] orcs believe it is the most fertile of all the Druj lands. Great plantations worked by slaves and fed by the many rivers and streams provide large amounts of both food and [[Herbs|herbs]]. As with the [[Forest of Ulnak]], they believe the [[Sarangrave]] has a great fortress - not quite the match of that in Ulnak but certainly larger than the Towers of Dusk in the Barrens. It was built centuries ago, according to the orcs, and thousands of slaves died bringing the [[White granite|white granite]] that served as its foundation south across the breadth of the Mallum. 
The [[Great Forest Orcs|Great Forest orcs]] speak of the [[Sarangrave]] in dark tones. They say that there is something corrupt in the marsh, a malignant presence that the Druj commune with. Some speculate that it is perhaps related to the terrible spirit that occupies the great ruins that lie along the northern river - the river that feeds into the Feverwater in [[Therunin]].
In Summer 383YE, the Imperial [[Senate]] constructed a [[Spy network]] in [[Sarangrave]]; details of the territory were made available to Imperial citizens after the Winter Solstice of the same year.
## Further Information
Further information about these territories could be secured with the aid of a [[Spy network]] built in each territory.