---
IgnoreLinking: False
Tags: ['Gazetteer', 'Imperial-Territory', 'Navarr']
Title: Therunin
draft: False
revision_date: 2023-06-19 13:14:45+00:00
revision_id: 102456
---

## Overview
On the borders of [[Highguard]], the water-logged bayou of [[Therunin]] provides a unique [[Challenge|challenge]] to the stridings that travel here. As the [[Navarr]] have recovered [[Territory|territory]] from [[The Vallorn|the Vallorn]], the [[Forest|forest]] here has grown still more malicious. Monstrous insects are a common threat here, even outside of areas where the [[Vallorn|vallorn]] still holds sway. Orcs from the east are a constant threat, although their incursions are made more difficult by the swampland.
## Recent [[History]]
The [[Druj]] have long coveted [[Therunin]]. Since the fall of [[Reikos]] in 367YE, many [[Navarr]] had been expecting an assault from the [[Barbarians|barbarians]]. In the [[Winter]] of 377YE, this long-anticipated attack finally came. A major force of [[Druj]] moved across the border from [[Reikos]] into Peakedge Song. Only the [[Courage|courage]] of the [[Black Thorns]] slowed the [[Barbarian|barbarian]] advance. Outnumbered two-to-one, the [[Navarr]] army suffered grievous losses, but prevented the [[Druj]] from establishing a [[Beachhead|beachhead]] in [[Therunin]].
While [[Reikos]] was dominated by the orcs, [[Therunin]] was connected to [[The Empire|the Empire]] only by tenuous routes through the mountains of [[Morrow]]; with the [[Druj]] [[Gone|gone]] the old trade routes down from Chalcis Mount have been restored.
## Major Features
### The [[Thimble]]
The [[Thimble]] is a [[Bourse]] [[Resource|resource]] located in the Eastring. Custodianship of the [[Thimble]] is an [[Imperial Title]] that brings with it a Seat on the [[Imperial Bourse]]. It produces 24 Imperial wains of [[Weirwood|weirwood]] every season. Since [[Autumn]] 381YE the custodian of the [[Thimble]] receives 20 wains a season, the [[Great Forest Orcs]] receiving the other four wains. Control of the [[Thimble]] is assigned to whichever [[Navarr]] candidate receives the most support from [[Navarr]] owners of [[Herb|herb]] gardens.
### Peakedge Stead
One of the most important sites in [[Therunin]], Peakedge Stead stands in western Peakedge Song. What initially began as a [[Steading]] dedicated to fighting [[The Vallorn|the vallorn]] of Therunin has transformed over the centuries to a place of contemplation and healing. Some stories claim the [[Steading|steading]] is a remnant of long-lost Terunael; there is something ageless about the trees here. Most of the buildings are built in the spreading branches of these great trees, or cluster around the trunks of these immense green giants. Many of the trees here are centuries old, and some are so tall that on a clear [[Day|day]] a Navarr can stand on one of the viewing platforms and gaze across to the hills of [[Reikos]] and even the forests beyond. 
Peakedge Stread has long been a place for the Navarr to meet with the people of [[Highguard]], especially when it comes to their shared interest in the arts of the [[Physick|physick]] and the [[Apothecary|apothecary]]. Some of the earliest work mastering the transformation of vinum sap into [[Liao]] took place here, for example. During the occupation of [[Reikos]] by the [[Druj]], the great tree-houses served as a [[Sanctuary|sanctuary]] for those who were able to escape eastward out of the territory. Since the liberation, many of those former refugees have returned to High Chalcis but many have also chosen to stay in Peakedge Stead. Some still maintain their Highborn identity, but a fair number - especially of the [[Children|children]] born amidst the gentle tranquility of this place - have chosen to become Navarr. They have helped maintain the renown of the [[Steading|steading]] as one of [[The Empire|the Empire]]'s premiere locations for the study of [[Herb|herb]] lore and healing.
### The Docks at Feverwater
Built along the western shores of Feverwater are a series of ancient quays of aged [[Weirwood|weirwood]] and [[White granite|white granite]]. Some have collapsed, and others are now submerged or exposed as the waters of the massive freshwater lake have ebbed and flowed. The docks date back to the time of Terunael, and have been thoroughly explored by the modern Navarr; they seem to be much larger than would be appropriate for fishing the Feverwater, and the ruins around the area are certainly those of a reasonably large Terunael settlement. Their purpose remains a mystery - all that lies to the east of Therunin are the dark woodland homes of the Druj. During [[Summer]] 379YE, the [[Imperial Senate]] appointed the [[Dredgemaster of Feverwater]] to oversee and expand the docks; boats regularly ply the western end of the great lake dredging the waters for valuables. [[Historical research]] commissioned by the [[Advisor on the Vallorn]] in [[Spring]] 384YE further explored some of the mysteries of the Feverwater, and the provenance of the ancient quays here.
### Mudlark's Haven
Mudlarks’ Haven is a bustling [[Steading|steading]] that wraps around the shore of the Feverwater protected behind a thick network for mangroves which act as harbour walls. The [[Steading|steading]] is raised out of the water on stilts and is popular with [[Traders|traders]] heading south to [[Zenith]] and beyond, sailors looking for money dredging the Feverwater, and thorns preparing to head into [[Sarangrave]]. The steading’s taverns are always full of deals and celebrations.
At the mouth of the docks, amongst the mangroves and accessible by awkward platforms sits a building made of discarded dredging boats - The office of the Dredgemaster. Flags hanging off the outside used to communicate the weather conditions. The docks are a series of pontoons on wooden supports, some new and some dating back to the Terunael. The moored dredging vessels and houseboats knock against the docks rhythmically along with the ebb and flow of the Feverwater.
### Holt of [[The Oak|the Oak]]
This unique [[Fortification]] was constructed in the Lower Tarn Valley by the [[Great Forest Orcs]] from [[Weirwood]] rather than [[White granite]] as part of the treaty between the refugees and [[The Empire|the Empire]]. The [[Commission|commission]] was beset by challenges but work was completed shortly before the Winter Solstice 383YE. A series of majestic [[Weirwood|weirwood]] towers surrounded by a wall topped with living thorns, the beautiful and imposing [[Fortification|fortification]] is also garrisoned by orc warriors - meaning that [[The Empire|the Empire]] does not need to pay for its upkeep. Navarr and Great [[Forest]] orcs alike mix freely in the shadow of the towers, and [[Traders|traders]] from other Imperial nations - with the notable exception of the Dawnish - have found it to be an excellent place to meet and do [[Business|business]] with the otherwise standoffish orcs.
If the treaty with the orcs were broken and the [[Great Forest Orcs|Great Forest orcs]] were motivated to try and seize the Lower Tarn Valley then the [[Fortification|fortification]] would take no part in the initial fighting. If this were to happen, and the orcs were to consolidate their control of the region, then the [[Fortification|fortification]] could provide full support to an effort they made to conquer the territory or resist Imperial forces.
## Regions
### East Ashes
Quality: Marsh
Stretching along the shores of the Feverwater, East Ashes is a twisted maze of great mangrove trees and murky water. Like the Tarn Valley it is home to several rare creatures, but the smaller beasts are overshadowed by the occasional incursion by a pack of hydra. Even the threat of the hydra is minor compared to the danger caused by the occasional [[Marshwalkers]] attempting to migrate through East Ashes toward the Lower Tarn Valley - when they pass through Greenheart, they invariably rouse the insects there and emerge on the far side angry and twisted by the poisonous air of the [[Vallorn|vallorn]].
The Steading of Ruis Farkas is based in East Ashes.  Since the death of [[Empress Britta]], this small steading has been highly politically active in [[The Empire|the Empire]] to ensure that Britta's successor has a strong Empire to lead This region has a reputation for being haunted; the core of that reputation can be traced to Fever’s Wake. Once a Navarri Glade of the Dead, but over a small space of days all the corpses laid there disappeared completely, with no sign they had ever existed. The area is shunned completely now.
### Eastring
* Quality: [[Forest]], Marsh
Recovered from [[The Vallorn|the vallorn]] in 105YE, the ground in Eastring used to be less marshy than that of the Lower Tarn Valley or East Ashes, but there were always several expanses of bayou especially in the west or south. Following the terrible storms of late 384YE, the bayou spread across most of the region, drowning sections of already sodden land and turning the rest to fens and marshes. The Navarr and [[Great Forest Orcs]] were able to mitigate the worst of the rain in the rest of the territory, but it is no easy task. The transformation has done nothing to reduce the large numbers of iridescent butterflies who flock here, but while the forests are rich in hard and softwoods the change in soil quality has heavily impacted the lumber trade here. 
Eastring is also home to several fortified [[Steadings|steadings]], and a higher than average concentration of Thorns due to the constant threat posed by the [[Barbarian|barbarian]] lands to east and north. This was one of the first regions of Therunin cleared of [[Vallorn|vallorn]] influence, and is the site of the Thimble, a valuable source of [[Weirwood|weirwood]].
### Greenheart
Qualities: [[Forest]], [[Vallorn]]
[[The Vallorn|The vallorn]] holds the ruins at the centre of Therunin in a fierce grip. While other Navarr forests are generally more threatened by vine-infested husks, the monstrous insects of Greenheart greatly outnumber the unliving corpses. The ruins themselves are water-logged, with large sections submerged in marsh according to the few adventurous scouts who have penetrated into this deadly zone.
### Lower Tarn Valley
Quality: Marsh, [[Great Forest Orcs]]
The lower valley is boggy and marshy. It is known as an excellent location for [[Herb|herb]] gathering, and the steadings here tend to have large numbers of [[Herb|herb]] gardens. The Lower Tarn Valley teems with rare wildlife seen nowhere else in the Empire - the delicate and deadly red crane, the somnolent bark alligator and the morose blue wave frog.
The Lower Tarn Valley is the centre of habitation for the Great [[Forest]] orcs. They do not control the region - it is still part of the Empire - but there is a sizeable population of orcs here living alongside their Navarr hosts. A small community of non-Imperial humans, all of whom are said to possess the [[Briar]] [[Lineage]] live with the Great Forest orcs, and are closely allied with them. While orcs from the Great Forest can be found across Therunin - and indeed the Empire since some of them began walking the [[Trods]] - the heart of their community has been in the Lower Tarn Valley since they arrived. The orcs maintain and garrison the Holt of [[The Oak|the Oak]] here - a unique [[Fortification]] that protects the Lower Tarn Valley - and the whole of Therunin - from enemy invasion.
### Peakedge Song
Comparatively lightly wooded, especially for a Navarr forest, the steadings of Peakedge Song maintain cordial relations with their neighbours to the north and south. The land here slopes quickly into the foothills of [[Morrow]], and there are several valuable mines along the southern border. During the fall of High Chalcis the Navarr lead several rescue missions across the borders, and as a consequence a number of Highborn refugees camped there, especially in the tree-top town of Peakedge Stead. With the final liberation of Reikos, many of them have chosen to return - but a significant number have chosen to remain as permanent residents of the steading. At the same time, a number of Navarr have chosen to move to Reikos - initially to help in the establishment of the [[Gardens of High Chalcis]], but they have also founded a small settlement on the edge of the forest not far from Peakedge Stead.
### Sweetglades
Qualities: Forest, [[Vallorn]]
The forests of the Sweetglades are ironically named; [[The Vallorn|the vallorn]] holds sway here.
### Upper Tarn Valley
Looking down on the Lower Tarn Valley, the Upper Valley is comparatively dry but the soil here is rich and healthy. The steadings here take advantage of this fertility, and the relative dearth of trees, to maintain extensive agriculture. The largest steading in the Upper Tarn Valley is Return, a well-fortified settlement surrounded by tall watchtowers that look out across the forests to the north and east. A place of flowers and memory, the steading has a storied history, revolving around the tale of a [[Brand]] who spent too much time amongst the barbarians and became too much like them - where Stridings pass to remember what happens when you forget that you are human, and they are not.
[[Senate]] Elections|Senator_for_Therunin|Territory=Therunin|Season=Autumn
## OOC Note
* The vallorn infests Greenheart and Sweetglades; the Navarr (and thus the Empire) control the other five regions. Therunin is an Imperial territory, but the Navarr would lose control of it if they lost two more regions
* The Holt of [[The Oak|the Oak]] is a unique level one Fortification built and garrisoned by the Great Forest Orcs
* The Great Forest Orcs have their main settlement in the Lower Tarn Valley but hunting parties can be encountered everywhere except Greenheart and Sweetglades.
* Strategic consideration: Thanks to the presence of the Feverwater, campaign armies cannot move east from East Ashes to [[Sarangrave]], nor can that region be invaded from the west, ''without'' an appropriate [[Opportunity]].
## Further Reading
* [[Make a deal]] - Spring 384YE Wind of Fortune detailing several [[Opportunities|opportunities]] to improve the [[Prosperity|prosperity]] of Therunin
* [[The Feverwater docks]] - [[Historical research|Historical Research]] into the Feverwater and the docks there