---
IgnoreLinking: False
Tags: ['Gazetteer', 'The-Marches', 'Imperial-Territory']
Title: Upwold
draft: False
revision_date: 2022-09-21 14:40:10+00:00
revision_id: 96419
---

## The Silver Chase
[[Upwold]] is where the Marchers first established themselves when they walked away from [[Dawn]]. The scattered orcs that dwelt here were no match for their determination to make a home for themselves; those that fled west or south would find themselves followed in short order as the Marchers pushed into [[Mitwold]] and [[Bregasland]]. Those that fled north found death at the hands of the [[Wintermark]].
Some of the worst fighting of the short-lived Marcher civil [[War|war]] took place in western [[Upwold]]. One of the few pitched [[Battles|battles]] between the households who supported the [[First Empress]] and those households who opposed the formation of [[The Empire|the Empire]] took place here at Hepton Bridge. Widely regarded as the bloodiest conflict of the civil [[War|war]], the scrubby heathland of [[The Battlefield|the battlefield]] is largely given a wide berth except by occasional pilgrims of [[Loyalty]] who come here to muse on the spiritual significance of the ancient conflict that set cousins against one another.
Today, [[Upwold]] is a wealthy [[Territory|territory]] in a wealthy nation - though unlike [[Mitwold]] a significant amount of its wealth comes from industries other than farming. While there are of course many farms in [[Upwold]], the quick-growing silver birch woods on the eastern borders are the source of a great deal of income. Charcoal-burners live there, turning wood into easily transportable fuel for smith and hearth alike - the charcoal of [[Upwold]] provides pure fuel for the cities of [[The League]] and the forges of [[Wintermark]] alike. The birch bark is used in the tanning industry, to cure the hides of the cattle that graze on the river pastures. 
Upwold has always felt a certain rivalry with [[Mitwold]] to the west. There is no argument that the farms of Upwold tend not to be as fertile as those of their neighbours; the soil tends to be quite acidic. In part, this has lead to a more diverse economy - while the [[Farm|farm]] is the centre of Marcher life here as elsewhere, there are many who make their living from trees rather than crops, which occasionally attracts comment from the more agriculturally minded Mitwolders. 
The people who live up here have closer links to the [[Navarr]] than many in [[The Marches|the Marches]], and more need for Beaters than most. Through the dark heart of those woods are paths no Marcher treads. From these secret ways come the [[Painted|painted]] [[Feni]] - uncivilised raiders, thieves, and rustlers who raid and steal from isolated settlements. To the north-west, cousins to these forests decay into the marshes that form the southern border of [[Kallavesa]] in [[Wintermark]].
Finally, Upwold is one of the few areas where anything other than beer is drunk. For centuries, the brewers of Upwold have made a drink from  the sap of the birch trees that warms their hearts in the cold [[Winter|winter]] nights but brings strange dreams.
## Recent [[History]]
Over the last thirty years there have been several attempts by the [[Jotun]] to attack across the border from the [[Mournwold]]. These campaigns were primarily aimed at claiming the [[Sutton Stone Quarries]] - the [[Jotun]] apparently have a great desire for [[White granite|white granite]] to help build and maintain their [[Fortifications]]. The last such attack in 372YE saw significant losses on both sides, and several new [[Jotun]] burial mounds along the southern borders.
The disastrous failure of the [[Autumn]] harvest in 379YE was followed by a particularly harsh winter during which all the farmers of [[The Marches|the Marches]] suffered significant losses in order to keep the [[Imperial armies]] marching. Then the [[Spring]] 380YE planting was hit with torrential rains and a vicious blight that devoured many of the seeds before they can be put in the ground. While the rest of [[The Empire|the Empire]] was enjoying a burst of vitality and fertility, the farms of [[Bregasland]], Upwold, and [[Mitwold]] were once again labouring under the yoke of a vicious magical [[Curse]] that ruined the crops, sapped the life from the beasts in the fields, and spread sickness and hunger wherever it touched. 
The plan to construct the ''Imperial Breadbasket'' may have begun in the markets of Meade, but it received immediate support from [[Market Towns|market towns]] across the [[Marches]]. The aldermen of Stockland in particular were quick to put their hands in their pockets - not as an act of charity, but as [[Recognition|recognition]] of the fact that when the farmers prosper, everyone in [[The Marches|the Marches]] prospers. Shortly before the Spring Equinox 381YE, work was completed on a network of granaries and storehouses across Upwold as part of the Imperial Breadbasket [[Great work]]. In addition to its work in securing the future of [[The Marches|the Marches]], this has helped to improve relations between the yeomanry and the residents of the market towns - reinforcing that even though they do not till the soil, they are still Marchers.
## Points of Interest
### Stockland
Dominating the fertile farmlands of Stock March, Stockland is a sprawling town known for its sheep and cattle markets. Almost all the households of western Upwold take their stock here to trade, and there is a market most weekends through Spring, [[Summer]] and Autumn. In addition to its cattle and livestock markets. It is known for its raucous taverns - successful drovers and herders celebrate the sale of their livestock with a hard [[Night|night]]'s drinking, while the less successful drown their sorrows before heading home. The breweries of Stockland produce ale and beer that is exported around [[The Marches|the Marches]] and across [[The Empire|the Empire]] - but while it is popular it is not particularly fine. Rather, the distinctive peaty taste of the brews is immediately recognisable to anyone who has spent time in Stockland, and easily brings a lump to the throat of the homesick Marcher. The brewers of Stockland take [[Pride|pride]] in their straightforward, down-to-earth product, and are quick to scorn anyone who expresses a preference for more refined beverages.
Hepton Bridge - the site of the only major pitched battle of the Marcher civil [[War|war]] - crosses the Meade near Stockland. On the anniversary of the battle, monks from the Stockwater [[Monastery]] make a [[Pilgrimage|pilgrimage]] to the site and the abbot delivers a sermon from the bridge itself, generally focusing on the importance of [[Loyalty]] and [[Pride]]. The monks, and the many visitors, then spend the night camped around the bridge, alert for signs of any unquiet ghosts. There have been no actual reports of hauntings in over fifty years, but the tradition endures.
### The Eastern Guard
Great crenelated walls and brooding towers look down from Eastern Guard onto the northern [[Forest|forest]] of [[Miaren]]. Built early in the history of the Marches in Birchland, the garrison was initially charged both with remaining vigilant against Dawnish aggression, and with maintaining readiness for attacks from the Vallornspawn of the deep woods. Since [[Miaren]] was cleansed in the early days of [[The Empire|the Empire]], and since the people of [[Dawn]] are now an allied nation, the castle has become more open - it is a popular stopping place for merchants travelling through the central Empire. Still, the dour Marchers ensure it maintains battle readiness at all times, for one never knows when an attack may come from an unexpected direction.
During the great collapse of Spring 381YE, most of the garrison of Eastern Guard was evacuated. Despite serious concerns, the sinkhole stopped spreading before swallowing the old castle whole, although the lip of the great dismal hole is little more than five-hundred yards from the north-eastern tower. Now, Eastern Guard has a new job - keeping an eye on the [[Trogoni]] that lurk in the depth of Lorenzo's Deep Pockets.
### The Woldstone
Standing in central Ashbrook, the Woldstone is very old. It is said to be the first menhir planted by landskeepers when the Marchers claimed Upwold for their own. A little over eight feet tall, it is a rough white stone pitted and weathered by centuries of wind and rain. 
The stone marks the centre of a potent Autumn [[Regio]] that has in the past been used to lay powerful enchantments over the whole of Upwold. The [[Regio|regio]] is tied to the [[Realm|realm]] of the [[Eternal]] [[Ephisis]], and watched over by one of her more potent heralds, ''Nunn o' the Wold''. According to stories, Nunn appears as a prosperous Marcher [[Steward|steward]] or [[Alderman|alderman]], and has a keen interest in the interplay between those who raise crops and the [[Traders|traders]] who buy and sell them. According to local stories, at one time the herald would appear every solstice and equinox to negotiate minor deals with brave yeomen, but it has been over a century since he was last encountered.
### Mumford
In western Stock March is the sleepy village of Mumford - right on the border with Upwold. Standing on the northern banks of the Meade, it marks a shallow spot in the river used for centuries by travelers and shepherds alike. North of the village, on a low and rolling rise, stands a ring of seven monoliths known as ''the Mummers''. Each of the stones has a name;  the six that make up the rough ring are called the Yeoman, the Abbot, the [[Weaver]], the [[Steward]], the Farmer, and the Alderman. The seventh stone stands a short distance outside [[The Ring|the ring]] proper, and is called ''the Pipe'' - depending on who one asks it represents either the fool or the beast. The stones mark a strong [[Regio]] tied to the [[Night Realm|night realm]], and the nature of the Piper is said to be tied to whichever [[Eternal]] serves as the patron of the [[Regio|regio]] at any given time - [[Janon]] or [[Sadogua]].
Every Spring, mummers and peddlers from across the Marches come here for the Mumford Fair, a celebration of [[Music|music]], dancing, open-ear theatrics, heavy drinking, and the unofficial Mummers Trial in which [[Bands|bands]] of entertainers compete for ... well it is never entirely clear for what. The entertainers put on their performances, and at the end of the weekend long celebration one or another of their number is carried up to the standing stones and crowned with a wreath of daisies before being dumped unceremoniously into a vat of beer. Traditionally, the "[[Earl]] of Mumford" is not allowed to get out of the vat until it is empty, and the fair closes with a night of serious debauchery and celebration as the guests help the [[Earl]] drink all the beer. A bottle of beer from the Mumford Fair vat [[Will|will]] often fetch a surprisingly high price - occasionally the alcohol is imbued with vestiges of [[Night magic]] and gains unpredictable qualities.
### The Bloody Great Hole
Just over a month after the Spring Equinox 381YE a large section of north-western Goldglades in [[Miaren]] collapsed with an almighty roar that was heard across most of Birchland. After the initial collapse, the hole began to spread. Warnings by the [[Navarr]] vates reached an already-worried Birchland not a moment too soon - over the next month, chaos reigned. Eastern Guard was evacuated of all save a bare bones garrison too stubborn to abandon their post, and for several weeks there was real concern that this old fortress might be a casualty of the ongoing destruction. 
Where Upwold once bordered [[Temeschwar]], there is now a massive [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sinkhole sinkhole]. Estimated to be seven hundred feet deep, with a lake at the bottom that may well be bottomless. The cliff walls are nearly vertical, and still prone to collapse in some places, but there are also signs of caves and tunnels opening out in several places. Initial explorers have excitedly reported what look to be ancient [[Mine|mine]] workings - some reaching back to the time of the Terunael, and some reaching back even further. The full extent of the network of caverns here has yet to be determined. More worryingly, some of the early daredevils who have made a preliminary investigation of some of the more accessibly caves and tunnels have failed to return - and all those who have made it back in one piece have described encounters with particularly angry [[Trogoni]] - creatures rarely encountered outside of the mountains of [[Urizen]], and the northern peaks of [[Wintermark]] and [[Varushka]].
The sinkhole was officially named "Lorzeno's Deep Pockets" by Lorenzo Macelliao von [[Temeschwar]], but that has not prevented many of the residents of Birchland referring to it as ''the Bloody Great Hole'' (perhaps a reference to Lorenzo's membership of the Bloody Butchers [[Guild|guild]], perhaps simply a result of Marchers choosing to call a spade a spade). Some yeomen, with a grim gallows humour, prefer to call the hole ''Downwold'' in reference to the not insignificant amount of Upwold soil that is now at the bottom of it. Regardless of what it is called, the beaters of northern Upwold keep a close eye on the hole - and the dangerous [[Trogoni|trogoni]] that lurk in its depths.
### [[Sutton Stone Quarries]]
The [[Sutton Stone Quarries]] are a [[Bourse]] [[Resource|resource]] located on the Heath. Custodianship of the Quarries is an [[Imperial Title]] that brings with it a Seat on the [[Imperial Bourse]]. It produces 23 Imperial wains of [[White granite|white granite]] every season. Control is allocated to any Imperial citizen by open auction during the Summer Solstice.
Anchor|Moonwater Hall
### Moonwater Hall (ruins)
Built near King's Stoke in Tower March, Moonwater Hall was a [[Faraden]] enclave that consisted of several dozen buildings including inns, homes, blacksmiths, wheelwrights, a shrine, and a number of warehouses, as well as a large public pasture for use by oxen. It was commissioned in Summer 381YE, and work was completed shortly before the Winter Solstice. Half of the [[Materials|materials]] were provided by Henry Ward on behalf of [[The Empire|the Empire]], with the other half being supplied by Lady Saretta of the Red Moon on behalf of a consortium of [[Faraden]] mechant families. Moonwater Hall provided benefits to the farms and businesses of Upwold as a [[Great work]]. In Spring 384YE, however, [[The Senate|the Senate]] voted to [[Abrogate Moonwater Hall]] and the trade hub was decommissioned.  
## Regions
### Ashbrook
Named for the river Ash which feeds into the Mead, the region of Ashbrook is scattered with thriving communities such as Ashill - said to be perpetually covered in soot from the charcoal [[Burning|burning]] that provides its main industry. North of Ashill, near the [[Hahnmark]] border, stands the prosperous [[Market Town]] of Sweetroot. This small settlement is a major center for the cultivation of the licorice plant. While small, Sweetroot has become wealthy through careful exploitation of the leafy plant and its delicious roots. Popular exports include sweetroot cake (a small, round confection that is popular almost everywhere), and sweetwater (licorice-infused water, used to treat a number of digestive system complaints). 
One of the oldest menhirs in the Marches - the Woldstone - is also located here. Believed to be the first stone raised by the landskeepers, it watches over the farms and market towns of Ashbrook. Not far from the Woldstone is the old oak wood of Walksend. Some of the trees here are over five hundred years old, but none have ever been felled. Local stories claim that the wood marks the spot where the first Marchers ended the March out of [[Dawn]]. According to this quaint story, on emerging from the woods of Birchland, the Marchers saw the rolling plains of Upwold laid out before them and knew they had reached their new home. They thrust their walking staves into the ground here to signify that they were done with marching, and the staves miraculously put forth roots, branches, and leaves and became the trees that form the [[Forest|forest]] today. Visitors claim that the experience of walking among the great oaks is distinctly restful. The monks nearby Oakwood [[Monastery|monastery]], known for their excellent physicks, take advantage of this reputation to speed the convalescence of their patients.
Ashbrook is also the site of Afal on Ash, and a certain stand of gentle stand of silver beehive-hung trees overseen by the [[Guardian of the Prosperity of Afal]].
### Birchland
Quality: [[Forest]]
The thick birch woods of Birchland are a source of valuable timber. There are also extensive stands of beggarwood in Birchland, producing excellent quality Beggar's Lye, which support a thriving tanning and leatherworking industry. The fortress of Eastern Guard stands here, still watching the [[Forest|forest]] of [[Miaren]] for any sign for invasion by Dawnish nobles. Scattered here and there are old battlegrounds where [[Dawn]] and the Marches clashed in pre-Imperial times. Locals give these areas a wide berth, and tell gloomy stories about the ghosts that haunt them.
Just north of the bend in the road that runs between lies Good Leaf Gardens - a [[Wayhouse|wayhouse]] that regularly receives donations of [[Herbs]] from [[Navarr]] [[Traders|traders]] who pass through the area. The herbs are given by [[Navarr]] in thanks for the continuing aid of the Marchers in the [[Fight|fight]] against [[The Vallorn|the Vallorn]], and are distributed by the [[Steward of Good Leaf Gardens]] to those who need them.
In Spring 381YE, parts of north-eastern Birchland were swallowed up in the great collapse that created the sinkhole dubbed "''the Bloody Great Hole''" by locals and more properly referred to as Lorenzo's Deep Pockets.
### The Heath
There are few settlements on the Heath's rolling grasslands - the soil is not exceptionally fertile and the farms here tend to focus on raising goats and sheep rather than growing crops. The most significant location here is probably the [[Sutton Stone Quarries]], although historians would argue that the village of Redston would give it a run for its money. The village is the birthplace of the Marcher hero Tom Drake, who helped create the [[Imperial Military Council]], was the first [[General]] of the [[Drakes]], and ultimately fell in battle leading the Imperial armies against [[Alderei the Fair]]. Over the centuries, ''Tom's Orchard'' - the apple tree woods where the [[General|general]] was buried - has become something off a place of [[Pilgrimage|pilgrimage]] for Marcher generals and yeomen facing difficult challenges. The Redstons - the household that still owns the farms around the village - have resisted any attempt to create a more prestigious memorial to the dead [[General|general]].
Every month, Brock Heath market is held on the lands of House Brockheath, and regularly attracts [[Navarr]] traders from [[Miaren]]. While it is no longer as prestigious as it once was, it has a storied history and is generally believed to be one of the first regular markets that welcomed and encouraged trade with the Navarr in pre-Imperial times.
A significant number of the farms here belong to by grim-faced refugees from the [[Mournwold]]. During the occupation, these emigrants kept a close eye on the border to the south; they saw it as a solemn duty to rally the rest of Upwold against any sign of [[Jotun]] aggression from their old homelands. Now that the [[Mournwold]] has been [[Liberated|liberated]], there is a great deal of discussion between the families as to whether they should seek to reclaim their old farmland. While their parents want to return south, the younger generation have never lived anywhere else and consider themselves Upwolders through-and-through.
### Stock March
The green farmlands of Stock March are dominated by the presence of Stockland, which makes the most of its advantageous position at the junction of major roads linking [[Mitwold]], [[Hahnmark]], and [[Tassato]]. 
Stock March is the richest region in Upwold, and one of the most prosperous in the Marches. The sprawling Applewood grows here known for the fine, fat apples that bear its name. The Applewood shares its name with a village on the road near the border to the Moot, famous both for the Applewood Arms and for the fine-quality ciders it has produced since the earliest days of the Marches. 
The village of Mumford stands on the western border of Stock March, famous for its Spring fair and the magical monoliths that watch over it.
### Tower March
Quality: [[Forest]]
The Dense woods of Tower March have been cut back around the village of King's Stoke, but remain thick and vital in the rest of the region. A pre-Imperial tower stands here, just east of the village, that is said to mark the place where the rebels held back the King of [[Dawn]] following the march of secession. Most Upwold families - and indeed many families from other parts of the Marches - claim a connection to the battle at King's Stoke. That said, if every [[Family|family]] who claims an ancestor fought there is right, it must have been an easy victory. King's Stoke is also the site of Moonwater Hall, a [[Faraden]] trading enclave that supports merchants from that western nation who wish to purchase fine quality Marcher food and drink.
West of King's Stoke is Borsdell Hall, perhaps the closest the Marches gets to a centre of learning. The original hall belonged to the well-respected Brigit of Dourfen, the first [[Grandmaster]] of the [[Rod and Shield]] order of the [[Imperial Conclave]]. Raised in [[Bregasland]], the legendary [[Landskeeper]] moved to Tower March in the early years before the formation of the Empire and built the hall "''the better to keep an eye on the rest of the world.''" Her interest in "the wider world" brought news of the [[First Empress]]' meeting at [[Anvil]] to the stewards of the Marches, and many historians ascribe her a pivotal role in the Cousin's [[War]] that followed that fateful congress.  Modern landskeepers [[Will|will]] send an apprentice who shows a talent for battle [[Magic|magic]] to spend a season or two studying at Borsdell, learning techniques refined by Brigit and passed on to the martially-minded magicians who followed her.
Farmland at a premium in in Tower March, and the region is better known for its woodcutters and foresters. In addition to the ever present beggarwood, Tower March is the main source of [[Dragonbone|dragonbone]] in the Marches. In recent years the demand for Tower March amber has subsided in the face of extensive imports from Miaren and through [[Tassato]], but there are still several old and stubborn households whose fortunes are traditionally tied to the valuable material. Some of the more ambitious stewards of Tower March are said to favour a wholesale clearance of the woods, both to take advantage of the voracious Imperial demand for building [[Materials|materials]] and to allow for new farms - so far they have faced a great deal of resistance from those whose livelihood is tied to the woodlands. Most are pessimistic however; political power in the Marches does not lie in the hands of woodcutters and foresters, after all.
[[Senate]] Elections|Senator_for_Upwold|Territory=Upwold|Season=Autumn
## OOC Notes
* All the regions of Upwold are in the hands of the Marches (and by extension the Empire) making it a staunchly Imperial territory.
* The castle of Eastern Guard is a rank one [[Fortification]].
* The Imperial Breadbasket [[Great work]] gives every Marcher character who owns a [[Farm]] a share of 1080 rings.
* The presence of Lorenzo's Deep Pockets means that it is not possible for an [[Imperial army]] to move from Upwold to [[Temeschwar]] directly. They [[Will|will]] instead need to pass through either Miaren or [[Hahnmark]].