---
revision_id: 107412
revision_date: 2024-01-30T11:50:24Z
Tags:
- Gazetteer
- Imperial-Territory
- Dawn
draft: false
Title: Weirwater
---
## Overview
The craggy hills of [[Weirwater]] are home of many weavers, and the noble houses here seem to have more than their fair share of witches. The territory itself is scattered with deep forests, maintained untouched by the noble houses and inhabited by Eternal Heralds, exotic beasts and an abundance of rare herbs. The caves of [[Weirwater]] have a dark reputation with the people of Dawn, and are said to contain mysterious magics.
Legend has it that long ago the Earl of Sedaret pursued a crusade against several cabals of weavers who refused to recognise her authority. At the height of a great banquet, thrown by the Earl to celebrate her apparent victory over the weavers, a great bell began to toll and the castle and its surrounding village was drowned beneath great waves and unrelenting rain. It is said by the people of Culwich that on Winter nights of the new moon when the sky is clear one can still hear bells ringing in the depths of the great lake, and see lights that are said to be those of the drowned Earl and her noble household, still celebrating in the depths.
During the reign of [[Empress Varkula]], a significant force of [[Druj]] crossed [[The Semmerlak]] from the east and invaded [[Weirwater]]. Fighting under the banner of the Shadow Wasp, the Druj invaded Weirwater with a flotilla of great rafts launched across [[The Semmerlak|the Semmerlak]]. The Druj were led by a powerful [[Druj#Ghulai|Ghulai]] and her [[Bands#Covens|coven]], who wielded the power of Spring magic against the Imperial defenders. With the aid of the [[Navarr]] - especially [[Megan Black Blood]] - the Druj were defeated - but not before they [[Thunderous Tread of the Trees|raised the oldest forests of Weirwater]] against the Empire. Since then, there has been no significant incursion across [[The Semmerlak|the Semmerlak]]... but the folk of Weirwater remember.
## Recent History
## Major Features
### Culwich
A large town with a few outlying villages. Culwich has a long tradition of farming and is said to produce some of the best flax and wool in the Empire. The local merchants have influence with the weavers, who in turn offer them fine woven goods to sell to mutual profit. It was here or hereabouts that the first humans to live in Dawn landed. Culwich is now a rich port: goods and trade come to Dawn from Varushka through Culwich. There’s some trade to far-off Highguard, though to get there ships have to pass the shores of [[The Barrens|the Barrens]]. 
### Applefell
A sprawling hill town in [[#Garthmoor|Garthmoor]], surrounded by small farms. The people have a reputation for standoffishness, even with the merchants who pass through on their way to and from [[Karov]] and [[Semmerholm]]. While the area is known for its apple orchards, it is also known for “ ground apples” - a type of mushroom with an almost spherical head - which can be quite dangerous to those who mistake them for wholesome fungus. They grow on the ground, in rings, and the wise do not consume them without great care. Rumour has is that those who know the trick to preparing them can see into the Labyrinth, converse with ghosts, and perhaps more importantly avoid a lingering death.
### The [[Weirwater Vales]]
The Weirwater Vales are a Bourse resource located in [[#Wickmoor|Wickmoor]]. Custodianship of the Vales is an [[Imperial Title]] that brings with it a Seat on the [[Imperial Bourse]]. It produces 23 Imperial wains of weirwood every season. Control is allocated to any Imperial citizen by open auction during the Summer Solstice.
### [[Spiral]] Castle
In the centre of a small weirwood forest in [[#Weirmoor|Weirmoor]] stands [[Spiral]] Castle. Built in pre-Imperial times, it lies at the heart of a strong Summer [[Regio]]. The [[Earl|earls]] of [[Spiral]] Castle have always been [[Earl#Enchanter|enchanters]], and usually possessed of a strong [[Changeling]] [[Lineage]]. The household has been controlled by scions of the de Casillon family, and many of the nobles who live there are descendants of [[Empress Richilde]]. Over the centuries, the inhabitants have become more and more insular, spending less and less time beyond the boundaries of their manor. Some members of the [[Imperial Synod]] have even expressed concerns over whether they are entirely human any more. 
During the height of the Sun Queen's reign, the [[Imperial Senate]] agreed to a request that the resources of Spiral Castle be dedicated to the support and upkeep of the armies of the Empire, and of Dawn in particular. They created the title of [[Castellan of Spiral Castle]] to oversee the procedures needed to turn the weirwood and expertise of the castle's inhabitants into emergency support for [[Imperial armies]] camped in Weirwater.
For several decades, Spiral Castle was not reachable by outsiders; following the death of [[Emperor Hugh]] in 368YE the castle and surrounding forest abruptly disappeared behind a wall of swirling, chaotic mist. Attempts to communicate with, or reach, the inhabitants of Spiral Castle proved unsuccessful. Recently, however, contact was re-established with the de Casillons and the wall of mist brought down, leaving the house free to rejoin the rest of their nation - and providing the Dawnish people with a valuable new resource.
The [[Castellan of Spiral Castle]] is an [[Imperial Title]] within the [[Imperial Bourse|Bourse]] appointed annually by the [[Military unit|captains]] of Dawn.
## Regions
### Garthmoor
The town of [[#Applefell|Applefell]] stands in Garthmoor. Known for lightly wooded hills, Garthmoor has a reputation as an odd region, and many Dawnish ghost stories take place on the roads and in the woods here.
### Hawksmoor
Hawksmoor is a land of wild hills and twisted woodlands. The only settlement of any size is Hawthorn, a small town of lush gardens in a hollow near the road to [[Karov#Delev|Delev]]. Hidden behind a forbidding hedge, it is home to a circle of [[Dawn magical traditions#Weavers|witch weavers]] well versed in the intricacies of [[Spring magic]]. Their coven accepts only those who vouched for by a herald of Spring - although which [[Eternal]] the herald owes allegiance to is not common knowledge. The hedge around hawthorn grows thick and tall, and those not welcome feel its thorns if they try and push their way in.
### Sandling
Best known for the town of [[#Culwich|Culwich]], and for the fisherfolk that live in villages along the banks of [[The Semmerlak]], the wide fields of the south slowly rise into the low wooded hills of the north. Atop one of these hills, overlooking the lake, stands the Sentinel’s Folly. The remains of this ancient, shattered stone tower rise high above the trees and are attributed to the [[Paragons and exemplars|paragon]] known as [[The Sentinel]]. The four storey white granite structure is weathered, but the remaining floors are reasonably sound and it is used variously as a reference point or beacon for sailors in the western Semmerlak, as well as a look-out post for keeping an eye on the woods of [[Karov]] to the north.
### Weirmoor
* Quality: Forest
One the least settled regions in [[Dawn]], the rolling hills of Weirmoor are largely covered by an old and tangled forest. In the north and south, well maintained roads link Weirwater with [[Karov#Delev|Delev]] and [[Astolat]], but the heart of the region is wild and untamed. There are said to be trees in Weirmoor that were old before the Dawnish ever came to the [[Bay of Catazar]]. The local Dawnish nobles prefer the forest primaeval - Weirmoor is prime hunting ground and not only for game. [[Mundane beasts#Big Cats|Forest lions]] roam here, along with occasional packs of [[Mundane beasts#Dire Beasts|dire wolves]] or bears, and the occasional [[Legendary beasts#Dragons.2C Wyverns and Wyrms|wyvern]]. The handful of noble houses in Weirmoor have a reputation for standoffishness, and several have a grim reputation.
### Wickmoor
The eerie [[Weirwater Vales]] stand in Wickmoor, between the extensive estates of the feuding House deCourney and House Seerkan. Their presence gives the entire region a reputation for strange events, usually blamed on whatever it is that haunts the weirwood trees.
Senate Elections|Senator_for_Weirwater|Territory=Weirwater|Season=Summer
## OOC Notes
* Every region of Weirwater is under the control of the Dawnish (and by extension, the Empire) making this a staunchly Imperial territory.
* Giritane's Gaze is a [[Great work]] that provides 45 crowns each season divided among the [[Mine|mines]] of Weirwater