---
IgnoreLinking: False
Tags: ['Archetype', 'Imperial-Orcs']
Title: Imperial Orcs economic interests
aliases: ['Imperial_Orcs_economic_interests']
draft: False
revision_date: 2023-02-07 14:46:41+00:00
revision_id: 97304
---

## Overview
[[Imperial Orcs]] see money as something that separates free citizens of [[The Empire|the Empire]] from slaves. Perhaps more so than many humans they understand the freedom that comes with being able to buy and sell things freely. A number of the first generation were raised in [[League]] cities, and possessed a well-developed appreciation for the power that comes with wealth. 
In keeping with their instinctual desire to be part of a group, however, many [[Imperial Orcs]] see a distinction between personal wealth - enough money to live in comfort - and the wealth of the legion - the wealth that comes from and is used to keep everyone in the legion well equipped, fit and capable of doing their jobs.
## Bonesetters
Many legions pool the majority of their wealth and resources, using it to provide for the members of the legion on the basis of need. A [[Warlord|warlord]] [[Will|will]] usually appoint one or more individuals to look after a legion’s wealth. By tradition these people are called bonesetters and are usually trained apothecaries, physicks or both.
Bonesetters are expected to attend to the physical needs of the legion, but their remit runs well beyond this. Most bonesetters proactively work to enrich their legion, investing the legion’s resources as they see fit to try to increase the legion’s wealth. Bonesetters have no formal powers but they often [[Broker|broker]] deals for the [[Skills|skills]] of individual legion members or even the whole legion, if they are confident that their warlord [[Will|will]] support them. A competent [[Bonesetter|bonesetter]] who is working in the best interests of their legion can usually count on their support. Few Orcs want to annoy the individual whose responsibility it is to treat the wounded but more importantly, the genuine bonesetter is assumed to be making deals for the benefit of the entire legion.
Since the legions settled in [[Skarsind]], many bonesetters have set up their own brokerages, supporting the health and [[Prosperity|prosperity]] of their neighbours as well as their legion. One of the most prominent positions a bonesetter can aspire to is the [[Bonesetter of Torfast Trading Post]], responsible for overseeing the Imperial [[Imperial Orcs]] trade hub that serves as the centre of the [[Northern trade network]].
## Reavers
A handful of legions no longer maintain links with the armies. They have come to enjoy the freedom and wealth afforded by mercenary work. These [[Groups|groups]], called reavers, support themselves by raiding, adventuring, and hiring themselves out as guards and escorts to merchants prepared to pay to secure the martial might of an Imperial Orcs [[Military unit]]. With their income not tied to the vagaries of the Imperial Guerdon, or the strategies of the [[Imperial Military Council]], [[Bands|bands]] of reavers may quickly become wealthy.
Reavers are mostly tolerated by other Imperal Orcs; as often as not their wealth helps to enrich the Imperial Imperial Orcs nation and thus can still claim to be serving [[The Empire|the Empire]] in their way. The primary bone of contention used to be that reavers were often loyal to their own band first, and to the rest of the Imperial Imperial Orcs nation and the Empire a distant second. However with Imperial Orcs legions increasingly abandoning the [[Summer Storm]] and the [[Winter Sun]] to follow the Guerdon, the distinction between the two groups is increasingly blurred.
Reaving is seen as a good way of life for those Orcs who chafe under the leadership or strict discipline of army life. Furthermore, the line between legions and reavers is easily crossed. Legions that find themselves unable to respect a [[General|general]] or the demands of the [[Military Council]] may up the reaving lifestyle, sometimes for years at a time. Reavers who become prosperous may enjoy the luxury of supporting one of the Imperial Orcs armies without concern for Guerdon shares, or as a route toward taking a more significant role in Imperial Orcs society.
## Resources
Until recently most Imperial Orcs favoured military units and only a few invested in [[Herb|herb]] gardens, mana sites or other static resources. Now that their dream of a homeland of their own has been realized, increasing numbers of them are moving there to take up stewardship of the valuable resources left by the departing Wintermarkers. They are swiftly proving themselves to be capable as farmers, [[Business|business]] owners and more, and for the most part they are able to fill the many needs of their nation's people.
However most Imperial Orcs still regard mines with a great deal of distaste and few Orcs can be convinced to work them. As a result the Imperial Orcs usually avoid them and those that do own them often have to hire Wintermarkers or other Imperial citizens to work them. The shortfalls in metals and other [[Materials|materials]] that the Imperial Orcs need were traditionally provided by reavers, but increased [[Opportunities|opportunities]] to trade with other Imperial nations and even the [[Thule]] means that there are now more options available to ensure that an Imperial Orc can avoid the stigma of having to work a [[Mine|mine]]. 
The [[Foreman of the Mines of Gulhule]] in particular plays a role in keeping the [[Skarsind]] mines operational. This [[Ministry]] involves ensuring that sufficient [[Mine|mine]] workers are employed to exploit the rich mineral wealth of the Skarsind mountains.
Imperial Orcs Links