In this final section of research documents the focus is on more recent developments, opportunities and ongoing situations. Included are the following:

[[Thoughts On Consciousness By Arawyn Blackwater|Thoughts on Consciousness by Arawyn Blackwater]]. While this document, found at the steading of Return is purely theoretical it serves as evidence of early theories into Vallorn husks and how they differ to other instances of animated bodies.

Notes on [[The Vallorn|the Vallorn]] by Emhyr Shadowbirch. This document was somewhat rambling in nature but held some interesting queries and excerpts of note are included here.

[[Vallorn Husks And The Soul|Vallorn Husks and the Soul]]. A summary of the investigations into the spiritual threat that the Vallorn poses.

Historical Research into Durstan of the Briar, the legendary, if controversial, figure uncovered in research into the Vallorn itself. While he is a historical individual further research indicates a possible tie to the Heirs of Terunael, several of whom have taken on his name of variants thereof.

The Silent Bell investigation into the Heirs of Terunael, a group of radical individuals seeking to spread the Vallorn. Aided by the eternal Yaw'nagrah this group and those like it from a very real and present threat to the Empire.

A Virtuous War, recent Synod judgements relating to the Vallorn, especially those regarding the formation of the Grey Pilgrims.

[[Pilgrimages Of The Great Choreography|Pilgrimages of The Great Choreography]]. Proposed pilgrimage routes following in the steps of Navarr and Thorn along the trods.

[[The Vallorn]] by Talek Dancewalker. Whilst it does not contain up to date information this pamphlet from Spring 379YE provides a strong overview of what the Vallorn is.

[[Medical Observations On The Vallorn|Medical Observations on the Vallorn]] by Dr. Cadfael Eternal. A guide on treating injuries and other afflictions associated with flighting the Vallorn.

383YE Almanac. An excerpt of an almanac that gives reports on the recent war against the Vallorn and the formation of the Grey Pilgrims.

My own account of the opportunity in Liathaven and pushing back the Vallorn in Westwood. This summarises events around a once in a lifetime chance and the choices made around it.

Notes on outstanding and future avenues of investigation.

A closing Advisor's Notes and a couple of pages for you to add your own thoughts or any addendums that come to light.