Against [[The Vallorn|the Vallorn]]

**Battle of [[Brocéliande]]**

Throughout 383YE, [[The Empire|the Empire]] has been at [[War|war]] in the [[Forest|forest]] of [[Brocéliande]]. It began in late [[Autumn]], when [[Navarr]] scouts reported a dangerous rise in [[Vallorn|vallorn]] activity in the [[Territory|territory]] even as [[The Vallorn|the vallorn]] in [[Liathaven]] was being beaten back. Two regions of Brocéliande remained free of [[Vallorn|vallorn]] infestation, and it seemed the dreadful vegetable horror sought to reclaim both Elerael and Boar's Dell. As the year progressed, it became clear that this was not some random increase in vallorn activity but something much more sinister, guided and encouraged by servants of the deadly [[Eternal|eternal]] Yaw'nagrah and her treacherous mortal allies.

Yet the [[Navarr]] defenders were not without allies of their own. The questing knights and knights errant of [[Dawn]] rallied to the cause to defend their friends in Boar's Dell, while the priests and pilgrims of [[Highguard]] sent significant aid to the beleaguered inhabitants of Elerael in the form of pious warriors and valuable supplies. At the same time, independent captains came from across [[The Empire|the Empire]] to [[Fight|fight]] in Brocéliande, to help the Navarr living there preserve their homes. Arrayed against them, mysterious traitors - many of them with [[Briar|briar]] [[Lineage|lineage]] - working hand-in-hand with the servants of the [[Eternal|eternal]] Yaw'nagrah to urge the vallorn of Brocéliande to wakefulness.

The strength of the vallorn increased season-on-season until the nascent disaster culminated in a great push in the lead-up to the Autumn equinox. With allies both mortal and eternal, the Navarr were able to hold their own against the tide of green destruction and drive it back - weakening the vallorn sufficiently that it may soon prove possible to clear its malign presence from Dark Ranging as well.

Victory in Brocéliande has come at a price, however. The Navarr laid a powerful [[Curse|curse]] of [[Winter magic]] across the territory to help slow and weaken the vallorn advance, and that [[Curse|curse]] has long-term implications for the people living there and their ability to prosper for at least a generation. Perhaps even more contentiously, that victory was apparently bought with the [[Assistance|assistance]] of the [[Druj]]; five thousand hated ores from [[The Mallum|the Mallum]] fought the vallorn in Brocéliande. While many have turned a blind eye to this new alliance between the Navarr and the [[Druj]], the eastern ores do nothing that does not serve their own interests in some way.

**Liberation of [[Liathaven]]**

Brocéliande is not the first place that Yaw'nagrah and her allies have sought to cause trouble. In 381YE, they were involved in an attempt to push the vallorn of Liathaven to spread northward into West Ranging. At great [[Cost|cost]], the Navarr and their Marcher allies held the line against the vallorn and pushed it back - creating an [[Opportunity|opportunity]] to strike back against the weakened vallorn.

In [[Summer]] this year, that strike fell and the vallorn was driven out of the West Wood. For the first time since the fall of Terunael it is possible to travel from [[The Marches|the Marches]] to [[The Brass Coast|the Brass Coast]] through Liathaven without the threat of the Vallor. In the process, a great treasure was uncovered - an untouched [[Forest|forest]] of [[Weirwood|weirwood]] trees that had endured the touch of the vallorn unchanged for a thousand years.

The defeat of the vallorn in Liathaven represents a major victory for the Empire, but the territory remains contested between the Empire and the [[Jotun]] The forests also labour under the same powerful [[Winter]] curse as Brocéliande, and following the resolution of the [[Mournwold]] situation, an unknown number of [[Feni]] have settled the forests of Liathaven.

**Heirs of Terunael**

Even as the Navarr were victorious in Brocéliande, however, their enemies changed target. The so-called Heirs of Terunael - allies of Yaw'nagrah who seem hellbent on seeing the vallorn devour the entire Navarr nation - launched attacks in Liathaven, [[Hercynia]], and [[Therunin]]. If not for the timely assignment of the [[Silent Bell]] to investigate their activities, the Empire might have been taken by surprise. As it is, the activities of these Heirs and their allies were uncovered in the nick of time, allowing the Empire to potentially intercede and block their attempts to ravage [[Hercynia]] and [[Therunin]], and further complicate the chaos in Liathaven.

**Rise of the Grey Pilgrims**

The Grey Pilgrims were formed in response to the spiritual threat posed by the Vallorn. Drawn from those members of the Highborn nation prepared to commit everything to the [[War|war]], and following the Navarr example, they have taken to walking the [[Trods|trods]] in large numbers. This new [[Pilgrimage|pilgrimage]] has come at great [[Cost|cost]], but a decision by the Empire to support the Highborn meant that they were not required to bear this cost alone.

As they have travelled the trods, the Grey Pilgrims have continued to develop their role in the Empire, and in the nation of [[Highguard]]. Throughout 383 YE, the Pilgrims' [[Mandate|mandate]] to seek out heresy, blasphemy, and idolatry was explored. Unfortunately, this exploration lead to conflict with almost all [[The Nations|the nations]] of the Empire. In the end, the [[General]] [[Assembly]] of [[The Synod|the Synod]] intervened, declaring that the various idiosyncratic practices of individual nations were acceptably orthodox. This brought the growing [[Confusion|confusion]] to an end for all human nations save one.

The exception was [[Dawn]], who took a very different approach. After the Summer Solstice, the Dawnish [[Assembly|assembly]] encouraged [[Troubadours|troubadours]] to visit Highguard and show them that love and [[Glory|glory]] were not incompatible with the virtues. Highguard welcomed the Dawnish priests, and as the Winter approached the two nations' assemblies seem to have become closer than ever before.