It was early in my tenure as Advisor on the Vallorn that I found myself meeting with the eternal Kaela. It was during that audience that we spoke on endings and I voiced my ambition. I sought not only to lead the Empire in fighting the Vallorn but to strive to see another Vallorn heart defeated in my lifetime.

Amused, Kaela offered me a place in her legion to ensure my longevity and ensure that my words become reality. Naturally I declined but stating my intent in front a figure of such power was very reaffirming. My oaths stand resolute and have been at the forefront of my mind while writing this book.

It is strange to think that I have collated and written so many pages on a singular topic and yet it still feels like nowhere near enough. However, I am hopeful that the information contained in this book is of use to you. Whether it is to be prepared and more aware of the situation for the battles ahead or to use existing information to inform your research I am sure there is a lot to be gained from these documents. It is my intent to work to see that all of this information is as widespread as possible in particular through libraries of the Empire and the Civil Service. It is only through sharing our knowledge of the past that we ensure we do not make similar mistakes again.

Thank you for working with me, by reading this book and endeavouring to understand the nature of the vallorn better we are all working together towards the eventual eradication of the vile threat. If you have any questions or ideas for further research and dissemination of information do not hesitate to let me know. Let's all work together to ensure a better Empire for future generations.

Siân Eternal