**FROM THE DEPARTMENT OF [[Historical research|HISTORICAL RESEARCH]]**

Last season I commissioned the Department of [[Historical research|Historical Research]] to look into the Heirs of Terunael. The information gathered by The [[Silent Bell]] has told us a lot about the present situation with the dangerous cultists and associated cabals and I felt it prudent to see if we could expand upon what was discovered by looking into the [[History|history]] of the group and those like it, especially given the plausible connection to Drustan/Durstan the [[Briar]] uncovered during [[Historical research|historical research]] into his life. While [[Groups|groups]] like these tend to be secretive until they strike loudly hindsight may given us further [[Insight|insight]] into their formation and motivations.

**FROM KANTOR [[Spire|SPIRE]], [[Axos|AXOS]]**

During diplomatic talks with an [[Ambassador]] from [[Axos]] it was agreed that while [[The Dance of Navarr and Thorn|the Dance of Navarr and Thorn]] is a very effective tool against [[The Vallorn|the Vallorn]] it would serve no purpose in [[Axos]] without the [[Navarr]] to walk the [[Trods|trods]].

However, they saw the potential in the [[Ritual|ritual]] and asked if they could study it in the hopes of creating something similar that may work for them. Following some negotiations and talks amongst the vates of [[Navarr]] it was agreed that the [[Spire|spire]] be allowed a copy of the [[Ritual text|ritual text]] on the grounds that in exchange they were to provide copies of any [[Rituals|rituals]]) they developed to [[Combat|combat]] the [[Vallorn|vallorn]] that were born of their research. If the Axou researchers are unable to create a ritual based upon the Dance then they agreed to share all of their research notes.

In the time since these negotiations the [[Spy network|spy network]] in the [[Mountains of the Moon]] was commissioned and used. While we are now aware of a possible land route to [[Axos]] that could mean extending the [[Trod|trod]] network to them it would require the blessing, or at least the understanding of the people of [[Tsark]] to allow for the [[Navarr]] and Grey Pilgrims to traverse their lands. Despite this there is undoubtedly merit in what they researchers have discovered so far and I intend to work with the [[Ambassador to Axos]] to receive updates on their progress.

**FROM THE PEOPLE OF [[Navarr|NAVARR]]**

Following on from the [[Historical research|Historical Research]] Request into [[Abraxus Stones]] and the support of the [[Navarr]] [[Assembly]] the virtuous citizens of Navarr have been asked to come forward if they have any information on The [[Vate]]'s Shelter that was worn by Roswen Doublestep. It is through stories of our [[Heroes|heroes]] and the tools they used to [[Combat|combat]] [[The Vallorn|the Vallorn]] that we [[Will|will]] be able to form increasingly effective methods of dealing with the threat.