---
IgnoreLinking: False
Tags: ['Rules', 'Spells']
Title: Detect magic
aliases: ['Detect_magic']
draft: False
revision_date: 2023-12-29 18:06:37+00:00
revision_id: 106688
---

## Description
This simple divination is invariably the first one that a [[Magician|magician]] learns to cast. Every magician is able to cast it; along with [[Operate Portal]] and [[Create Bond]], it represents a shared suite of powers common to everyone who works [[Magic|magic]]. Being able to perceive magical auras is a key part of learning to cast spells and perform [[Rituals]]. Once an apprentice magician masters the ability to attune their perceptions to [[Magic|magic]], the spell allows them to perform a number of simple functions relating to magical energies.
While many magicians think of magical auras in terms of visual effects, the experience of detecting [[Magic|magic]] is highly personal. Some magicians, especially those who have studied the [[Music of the spheres]], interpret magical effects in terms of musical notes. Magicians with [[Naga]] lineages in particular are known for their discerning senses and report feeling, smelling or even tasting magical auras through the use of this spell.
[[Detect Magic|Detect magic]] is versatile but does not provide in-depth information about a magical effect. Where complex magical effects are concerned, the [[Bright Lantern of Ophis]] is much more effective at divining details of a magical effect. 
For all its versatility, a magical investigator can rapidly deplete their store of personal mana. Anyone who wants to specialise in this kind of divination may want to invest in a [[Seer]]'s Probe which allows the wielder to cast extra [[Detect Magic|detect magic]] spells in a [[Day|day]] (and, as a bonus, grants access to [[Voice for the Dead]] as well).
Finally, it is [[Worth|worth]] noting that perception of magical auras is not restricted to magicians - the [[Magpie Infusion]] is a herbal preparation that can be used to duplicate the effect of [[Detect Magic|detect magic]] in a limited fashion.
## Casting
Regular Spell|1
## Effects
This flexible spell can be used to perform a number of separate tasks, but only one may be used each time the spell is cast. Each of these uses requires the [[Assistance|assistance]] of a [[Referee]].
### Divination
By casting the spell on a single target that is close enough to touch, you can determine the name of any specific [[Rituals|rituals]] or ceremonies that could be used to discover more information about it. This effect only reveals the name of [[Rituals|rituals]] that are in [[Imperial lore]]. Certain [[Rituals|rituals]] ([[Ties that Bind]], [[Hand of the Maker]], the [[Insight]] ceremony) [[Will|will]] almost always provide information and are only mentioned if there is explicit extra information to be uncovered. 
Divination [[Will|will]] also name other ways of gathering information. For example, it [[Will|will]] reveal whether there is information to be gathered about an item using the [[Insight]] ceremony, or whether an [[Arcane projection|arcane projection]] in a certain [[Realm|realm]] and of a certain magnitude might be used to learn more about an effect.
### Discern [[Enchantment]]
By casting the spell on a single target that is close enough to touch, you determine the level and [[Realm]] of any [[Ritual|ritual]] [[Enchantment]] on the target. If the [[Enchantment|enchantment]] is the result of a boon from an [[Eternal|eternal]], the spell [[Will|will]] reveal this and the [[Realm|realm]] the [[Eternal|eternal]] is associated with.
### Identify Ritual Performance
You can use this spell to discern the magnitude and [[Realm|realm]] of a ritual that is being cast if you are close enough to hear the words of the ritual.
### Identify [[Magical Item]]
By casting the spell on a single [[Magic|magic]] item you can determine its basic abilities. When used in this way it does not reveal the presence of any additional qualities such as the presence of a [[Curse]], [[Hallow|hallow]] or hidden [[Roleplaying effect|roleplaying effect]]. Using the spell in this way [[Will|will]] also detect any enchantments on the target item.
### Discern [[Arcane Mark]]
You may cast this spell on a single target to determine if they have an [[Arcane Mark]], and whether than [[Arcane Mark|arcane mark]] is the same as your own (assuming you have one). When cast for this specific purpose, it does not discover any other information about enchantments on the target. This use of [[Detect Magic|detect magic]] is closely tied to the Right of [[Challenge]] of the members of [[The Conclave|the Conclave]] orders.
### Identify [[Regio]]
You may cast this spell on a [[Regio]] to confirm it ''is'' a [[Regio|regio]], and to determine which of the six [[Realms|realms]] it is associated with,. It will also reveal if that [[Regio|regio]] has any intrinsic special properties. It will identify if a [[Regio|regio]] is "strong" or not (that is if it will allow targeting of large-scale [[Rituals|rituals]] on a [[Territory|territory]]), or provide information on any special bonuses that might apply to rituals cast there.
### Discover Conjunction
[[Detect Magic]] can also be used to interact with the [[Sentinel Gate]], the powerful teleportation portal that stands in [[Anvil]] and allows [[Characters|characters]] to quest and take part in [[Battles|battles]]. When you use the spell in this way, you can ask a [[Referee|referee]] if a specific conjunction is anticipated. You must specify as exactly as possible the destination you are looking for - it is not enough to just name a Territory or region. For example, you might ask if there will be a conjunction to "''The shrouded glen, on the outskirts of Mournstead in [[Liathaven]]''" - it is not enough to just ask if there is a conjunction to [[Liathaven]] or Liath's Ring. When used in this way, the referee will tell you if there is a conjunction; when it will open; how many people may pass through it; and any special circumstances that related to that conjunction.
The 'day' part of when it will open always refers to the 'game day', even at or after midnight. e.g. 'Saturday 00:00' or 'Saturday 01:00' is at the end of Saturday [[Night|night]], not the end of Friday.
## Special Circumstances
Some effects can conceal information from detect [[Magic|magic]], but in that case the presence of the obscuring effect itself is always detected by this spell. There are no enchantments that will cause detect magic to give false information.
If the spell targets an item, and that item is under the effect of [[Mark of Ownership]], then details of that mark are revealed in addition to any other information sought with the specific spell use.
## Sample Vocals
The following are sample vocals you can use to cast this spell if you don't want to make up your own.
* (''with eyes closed and one hand almost touching the target'') "By the light of the hidden moon, let my inner eye be opened. Let my inner eye be opened and let me see more than mortals do. Let me see more than mortals do and look beyond the world of colour and shape. Let me look beyond the world of colour and shape and see the true world beyond. Let me see the true world beyond, and let my inner eye be opened. Let my inner eye be opened, bu the light of the hidden moon."
* (''evoking [[The Door|the Door]]'') "Upon my brow is the crown of four stars; it grants me authority to command the hidden [[Gate|gate]]. Let the star of the east attend and grant me [[Wisdom|wisdom]]; let the star of the west attend and grant me [[Insight|insight]]. Let the star of the south burn away the shadow; let the star of the north grant me sight beyond the veil. Let the paths of the future be shown to me, [[Sentinel]] Gate I command you speak to me with the voice of the Heavens." 
* (''sketching each [[Rune|rune]] in turn in the air above the target'') "I cast the [[Runes|runes]] before me. I invoke the bright lantern. I invoke the light of truth. [[Illuminate]] this (''man/woman'') with the light that reveals all. I bring for the light that drives away [[Confusion|confusion]] and lays bare the secret lore at the heart of all things."
* (''during a careful examination of the target'') "I have been called and I am here; [[The Doctor|the Doctor]], who sees keenly and separates truth from deception. My keen eyes cannot be deceived, my keen wit cannot be led astray, my voice cannot be stilled when I speak of hidden things. Nothing can hide from my gaze, and all secrets are laid bare before me. I come to present my diagnosis, as I have been bid."
## Common Elements
* Rune Magic: The obvious [[Runes|runes]] to include in detect magic are [[Sular]], [[Aesh]], [[Ophis]] and [[Irremais]] all of which deal with knowledge or information. The [[Runes|runes]] [[Diras]] and [[Wyr]] might also be appropriate to some casters, especially when exploring a mysterious or enigmatic magical effect. Finally, a rune that reflects the nature of the target might suggest itself -  the rune of plots suits an attempt to detect an [[Arcane Mark|arcane mark]] for example.
* [[Astronomancy]]: [[The Key|the Key]] suits detect magic in [[General|general]], as does [[The Spider|the Spider]], but it is [[Worth|worth]] noting that [[The Door|the Door]] has obvious correspondences when using the spell to determine the presence of a conjunction on [[The Sentinel|the Sentinel]] Gate.
* [[Dramaturgy]]: Two personae are associated with this spell. [[The Doctor]] works through careful examination and study of a target, while [[The Witch]] represents a more intuitive approach. Lantern, which reveals things when lit, is also a good match for this spell - either pretending to kindle an invisible flame in an actual phys-rep or calling its authority as a tool of revelation and discovery.
* Other traditions: A Dawnish [[Witch|witch]] might evoke the power of a wise sphinx, while a [[Wintermark]] or Varushkan magician might call on totems associated with [[Wisdom|wisdom]] (ravens and spiders or squirrels respectively).
* Realms: Detect magic, as a divination, has clear correspondence with the realms of Day and Night, but it could also been seen as an expression of [[Wisdom|wisdom]] and thus tied to the [[Realm|realm]] of [[Winter]]. Determining information about an object, or about the [[Sentinel Gate]] also has obvious resonance with the [[Autumn Realm|Autumn realm]].