---
IgnoreLinking: True
Title: Downtime
draft: False
revision_date: 2023-04-05 17:39:53+00:00
revision_id: 98687
tags: ['Game-Design']
---

## Hand-in Baggies
*Put anything that you wish to use in [[Downtime|downtime]] in your baggy at the end of the event
*Make sure you complete a hand-in slip listing the [[Materials|materials]]
If you want to make use of any money, [[Materials|materials]] or items during [[Downtime|downtime]] then you must hand them in to GOD at the end of the event. Plastic bags are available in GOD for everyone handing in resources. You [[Will|will]] find a personalized slip for your character in your pack that you collect from GOD. You should list everything that you are handing in on the slip and put it in the bag when you hand it in.
Any money or resources handed in [[Will|will]] be available for use automatically for standard downtime actions such as crafting [[Magical Items|magical items]] or upgrading a [[Resource|resource]]. If your character needs to take an unusual action - such as using a dose of true [[Liao|liao]] then you need to email [mailto:plot@profounddecisions.co.uk Profound Decisions] to make sure that we are aware that you wish to pay for this. We [[Will|will]] remove the money or resources from your inventory as soon as we are aware that you wish to make a payment. If anything is removed from your inventory by us that you did not wish to use in this way then please let us know as quickly as possible.
## Income
*Every character receives [[18 Rings|18 rings]] at the start of every event they attend
[[Characters]] attending an event automatically receive eighteen rings. This represents the wealth the character has accumulated in the months leading up to the event. It is up to the player to interpret how they have earned this money in a way that is appropriate to [[The setting|the setting]] and their character.
Character with personal or campaign resources that produce money, receive this in addition to their [[18 Rings|18 rings]].
## Operating a Resource
*Every character can operate a single personal resource after each event they attend
You should choose a personal Resource for your character when you create them. Your resource [[Will|will]] automatically produce money or [[Materials|materials]] for your character to use at each event they attend.
Some personal resources, such as a [[Fleet]] or a [[Military unit]] always provide you with some very simple options that you can choose from each downtime. To access these options you should log on to [http://www.profounddecisions.co.uk/account/[[Characters|characters]] the Profound Decisions website] and choose your current character from the list of characters shown. If you attended the last event, then your character screen [[Will|will]] display a "submit downtime" button that allows you to choose one or more options for your resource.
All resources can be improved, if you hand in the right [[Materials|materials]], [[White granite|white granite]], [[Weirwood|weirwood]], or [[Mithril|mithril]]. You can also hand in money to pay to make a resource such as a [[Herb garden]], [[Mine]] or [[Forest]] provide even more [[Materials|materials]] than usual. These options are all accessed by pressing the "submit downtime" button on your character details screen.
## Making Items
*Artisans can make up to three [[Magic Items|magic items]] after each event they attend
A character who has purchased the artisan skill has three months each downtime to make items. There is no monetary [[Cost|cost]] to make items, but the character must have the rare Materials needed to make the item. Most enchantments take a month to complete but some weak enchantments require two months to make rather than using any materials. A character can continue to operate their personal resource while crafting items.
[[Enchanted]] items last for a single year from the [[Day|day]] of creation. This means that they can be used at the following four [[Events|events]] before the [[Magic|magic]] is lost. If an artisan has access to enough [[Ilium]] then they can use it to make a permanent [[Magic|magic]] item.
## Retraining
* Every character can retrain a single skill, crafting option or two [[Rituals|rituals]] at any time after each event they attend
* New players can retrain any [[Skills|skills]] after their first Empire event
After each event you attend you have the option to retrain a single skill that your character knows. You can choose one skill your character knows to drop. You can only retrain a skill if it's not a prerequisite for another skill you know. For example if you have the hero skill and the mortal blow skill - then you won't be able to drop hero because it is a prerequiste for mortal blow. If you want to retrain hero then you will need to drop mortal blow first; you will then be able to retrain hero after the next event you attend.
If you retrain a skill, then you will be refunded whatever the skill [[Cost|cost]] to buy. The refunded experience points are locked to that character, so they can only be used to buy new [[Skills|skills]] for that character. If you retrain an extra recipe skill or extra spell then the appropriate recipe or spell will be dropped at the same time. If you retrain a [[Realm|realm]] lore skill or a crafting skill then you may have to drop one or more [[Rituals|rituals]] or crafting options as appropriate. The website will inform you which options are being dropped or ask you to pick which options to drop as appropriate.
As an alternative, if you are an artisan, you can retrain a single crafting option after each event instead of any other retraining. If you are a ritualist then you can retrain two [[Rituals|rituals]] after each event instead of any other retraining.
There is a special option for [[Brand|brand]] new players - if you are checking your character after the very first Empire event that you have attended then you may retrain any or all of your [[Skills|skills]] and options. This benefit is only available after the first event you attend - it is not available after subsequent [[Events|events]] even if you take a new character.
You can retrain a skill at any point between [[Events|events]] - you don't have to wait for downtime to open. Once you select the skill you want to drop, it will be permanently removed from your character as you soon as you click save.
## Roleplaying Between [[Events]]
### Keeping [[The game|the game]] live
*We want the important IC discussions and decisions to happen live at the [[Events|events]]
Profound Decisions are very keen for [[The Key|the key]] IC activity of [[The Empire|the Empire]] world to take place at events. We believe your game will be busier and better if everything that can happen in the field, does happen in the field. Trade negotiations, religious debates, military planning, magical discourse and political discussions and appointments are all examples of activities that should happen at events.
While it would be logical to expect some decisions and interactions to take place between Imperial summits, Empire is a live-roleplaying game not a real-time simulation. Every IC communication you have between events is one you cannot have face to face.
### Social Media and IC roleplaying
* No in-character social media spaces for nations or Imperial political bodies
* Social media spaces for [[Groups|groups]], in-character advertisments and in-character emails to individuals are fine
Our core goal is to ensure that important game decisions are taken at events, rather than between events. For this reason we prohibit social media spaces that are intended for roleplaying between members of one of the ten nations or for any of the core Imperial political bodies - [[The Senate|the Senate]], [[Synod]], [[Bourse]], [[Military Council]] and [[The Conclave|the Conclave]] are not allowed. Please do not use social media spaces like Facebook, Discord, or similar to roleplay [[Online|online]] with members of your nation or a political body of [[The Empire|the Empire]].
It is permissible to use social media spaces to roleplay with the friends you come to the event with. It's also fine to advertise in-character services on [[The Empire|the Empire]] Facebook group and elsewhere, provided you don't then get drawn into in-character negotiations with other players for those services. You can send in-character communications by email, provided they represent a letter or the equivalent that you are sending to an individual - but don't mass-send a communication to an email list if it is promoting an in-character agenda or pushing a controversial point of view. Please keep this for when everyone is in-character at the event.
### Communication with NPCs
*You cannot send winged messengers between events
*We ask our NPCs not to send IC communications between events
You are welcome to send IC communications to [[Egregores|egregores]] and [[Anvil]] civil servants between events but all our staff have been asked not to respond until the next event. They may ''choose'' to bring such IC communications with them to the next event and act on them there.
[[Rituals]] cannot be performed in downtime so you cannot perform [[Call Winged Messenger]] unless you are at an event.
Please also appreciate that our crew are all volunteers. While they may choose to respond to questions, Profound Decisions do not expect crew to handle any OOC communications between events. If you need a response, please email Profound Decisions instead.
### OOC Design
At its heart Empire is a game of politics that is quite deliberately player versus player (PvP). Each event we create new [[Winds of Fortune|winds of fortune]] as part of our goal to stir the political pot and keep [[The game|the game]] intriguing, but the primary protagonists who might oppose your in-character agendas will be other players. 
In a game like Empire, it is possible to use the ubiquitous nature of the internet to push your character's agendas between events. We know from bitter experience with previous games we've run that if we allow that, then the game degenerates in two ways. The first is that a lot of roleplaying and interaction that could have taken place at the event occurs between it. That means the events themselves become less active, less busy, and ultimately less enjoyable.
The second issue is equity of access. We've been very clear with Empire that there are four events a year run by Profound Decisions. That's a deliberate choice on our part so that people know how much of a time commitment Empire might represent. Some of our players have near-limitless enthusiasm for Empire – and want to devote more time than that. For that reason we encourage and support players to create their own [[Sanctioned events|sanctioned events]] set in [[The Empire|the Empire]] world. But lots of players simply do not have the time or the inclination to devote so many hours to Empire – especially not to [[Online|online]] forums and communications.
The more we allow the game to be played online between events, the more that players with limited time are cut-out of Empire. They come to events hoping to engage in the politics that the game was built for, only to find that the major issues have already been agreed upon by participants communicating between events. That is a very serious concern for us – and is the reason we've always asked players not to push IC agendas on mass-participants forums between events.
We've tried to strike a balance with these rules. We let participants advertise their IC wares online, but we ask everyone to then pursue any negotiation at the events. That compromise makes it easier for players to be aware of characters and organisations they can seek out at an event which hopefully creates more [[Opportunities|opportunities]] for roleplay when everyone is in [[Costume|costume]]. We also allow letters between individual participants for similar reasons. And we're fine with groups creating forums for their group – since we want people to get together and froth about the game and their plans with their close friends and allies.
But what we don't want is people campaigning for titles online – or pushing for political outcomes through posts on facebook, discord or other social media spaces. That violates the letter of our rules that say not to use those kind of public access internet forums to push IC agendas – and it's very much against the spirit of the rules – that sort of campaigning should be done IC at events.
We don't want to make hard and fast rules that involve checking everything that happens online – that way lies madness. What we tried to create is simple guidelines so that  people can easily understand the rules. More importantly, we want folks to appreciate why the rules exist and what they are trying to achieve and to respect them accordingly. If that happens then we don't have to get involved in ruling on IC conversations happening online – but the events can remain exciting to play and accessible to as many players as possible who wouldn't otherwise have the time to get involved.
Player Rules Links
* [[FAQ]]