---
IgnoreLinking: False
Title: Currency
draft: False
revision_date: 2023-06-24 23:13:32+00:00
revision_id: 102647
tags: ['The-Empire']
---

## Imperial Coins
Imperial coins are minted at the Imperial Mint in [[Tassato]]. Coins are made of steel, rather than precious metal. Since the reign of [[Emperor Giovanni]] [[The Empire|the Empire]] has operated a [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fiat_money fiat currency] with the value of all Imperial coins derived solely from their backing by [[Imperial Law|Imperial law]].
The coins are denominated as 1 ring, 5 rings, 1 crown, 4 crowns, 1 [[Throne|throne]], 5 thrones, 20 thrones and 100 thrones. 
There are 20 rings to a crown and 8 crowns to a throne.
A ring generally represents a suitable payment for a minor task, or the [[Cost|cost]] of an item such as a simple meal or a bottle of wine or beer. Citizens who deal mostly in rings tend to be towards the bottom of the economic pile.
A crown is a more significant expenditure; a fine meal or a bottle of wine from a prestigious vinyard might [[Cost|cost]] a crown. Citizens who deal mostly in crowns tend to be wealthy - they are often [[Business]] owners, or run a prosperous [[Farm]].
A throne is a serious expenditure; the movers and shakers of [[The Empire|the Empire]] deal in thrones for preference. The [[Imperial Senate]] particularly deals in thrones. Anyone making transactions in thrones is considered to be among the richest people in [[The Empire|the Empire]].
## Historical Coins
Prior to the foundation of [[The Empire|the Empire]], each nation used their own coinage, generally stamped from precious metals. Each nation had their own exchange rates based on the perceived value of the individual coins - although some coinage was stronger than others. The [[Freeborn]] ''silver moon'' for example was recognized by most of [[The Nations|the nations]] that eventually became [[The Empire|the Empire]]; likewise the [[Navarr]] ''copper [[Thorn|thorn]]'' tended to be accepted wherever the early [[Trods]] extended.
All these various currencies created a problem when the Empire was founded. The exemplar [[Avigliana di Sarvos]] convinced both [[The Throne]] and the [[Imperial Senate]] to pursue the idea of a unified [[Currency|currency]]. As a result, during the time of [[Emperor Giovanni]] the Empire spent six months negotiating with various representatives of the nations to introduce a [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representative_money representative currency] based on stores of gold and silver. After Giovanni's death even this was abandoned in favour of the current [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fiat_money fiat currency] approach.
The design of the new coins was heavily influenced by the [[Imperial Synod]]. Many historical coins, especially the gold and silver ''runemarks'' used in much of [[Wintermark]], were marked with [[Runes|runes]] such as [[Feresh]] and [[Pallas]]. [[The Synod]] successfully argued that such symbols were inappropriate, and the final design for the rings, crowns and thrones reflects this. Some priests, especially those of the assemblies of [[Pride]] and [[Prosperity]] see this as a great success by the early [[Synod|synod]] - every citizen of the Empire is reminded of the virtues every time they engage in even the simplest transaction.
Historical coins have no value within the Empire as [[Currency|currency]], although they still occasionally turn up in treasure troves, ruins, and archaeological explorations. When they are recovered, they can sometimes be sold to collectors or museums (both Imperial and otherwise). If their silver or gold content is high, they might be sold to the Civil Service for imperial [[Currency|currency]].
Elsbet Giella di [[Sarvos]].
My dearest Elsbet, I must write with haste, for G. is even now preparing to present A's plan to the Freeborn and Marcher negotiators. We have the agreement of the mountains and the Northerners already, but these two are critical, otherwise the agonizing delays of the last six months [[Will|will]] all have been for nothing. Everything hangs in the balance, but I am certain he [[Will|will]] do it. I implore you to buy all the silver you can afford with all possible speed as soon as this winged messenger reaches you.
D.
## Foreign and [[Barbarian]] Currencies
All Imperial services and functions are handled in imperial coins - foreign and [[Barbarian|barbarian]] coins are not legal tender within the Empire. Foreign visitors know this, and rarely bother to bring their own currencies with them - preferring instead wherever possible to draw on caches of Imperial money built up through trade.
### OOC Note on Foreign Coinage
While nations such as [[Faraden]] and the [[Iron Confederacy]] use their own unique coins, Profound Decisions does not produce these coins and they have no value in the Empire. [[Foreign Nations|Foreign nations]] know the Empire's dislike for using non-Imperial coins and [[Will|will]] generally use rings, crowns and thrones for all transactions within the Empire.
## [[Bourse]] Certificates
The civil servants of the [[Imperial Bourse]] maintain stocks of the three valuable [[Materials|materials]] [[Mithril|mithril]], [[Weirwood|weirwood]] and [[White granite|white granite]]. Measured in wains, it is impractical to move these [[Materials|materials]] around too much or bring them to [[Anvil]], due to their size and weight. (A wain weighs approximately half a ton). Instead, [[The Bourse|the Bourse]] issues certificates that represent ownership of a wain of material. These are similar to bearer bonds - whoever has the bond can use it to collect a wain of the appropriate material from the Bourse.
Bourse certificates exist both to facilitate trade and construction within the Empire, and with [[Foreign Nations|foreign nations]]. These documents are carefully made to defy forgery; as such, they are accepted at face value not only throughout the Empire but by civilised [[Foreign Nations|foreign nations]]. An Asavean merchant or Jarmish [[Magician|magician]]-prince knows that their representatives can visit the Empire and claim [[Mithril|mithril]], [[Weirwood|weirwood]] or [[White granite|white granite]] in return for a Bourse certificate. Likewise, an Axou trader could arrange a deal with an Imperial citizen where they deposit some [[Weirwood|weirwood]] at Crown's Quay, receive a Bourse certificate, and transfer ownership to their contact simply and effectively.
Two attempts by [[The Senate|the Senate]] to instruct the civil service to refuse to honour a cache of Bourse Certificates, (one presented by the [[Sumaah]], another by the [[Grendel]]) have both been struck down as unconstitutional citing the Bourse "shall be free of all interference of the [[Senate]]".
## Barter
Barter is often considered a little gauche, but is also extremely common between Imperial citizens. Ingots and measures of the various valuable [[Materials]], as well as the extremely valuable [[Ilium]], are weighed and valued by neutral Imperial assayers and have a standardized weight and purity - and thus value. The same is true of [[Liao]] and [[Herbs|herbs]] such as [[True Vervain|true vervain]] - doses are prepared to a standardised purity and volume. This makes it much easier for Imperial citizens to exchange, sell, or buy these [[Materials|materials]] than for people in other nations; an Imperial trader knows that a certain amount of [[Orichalcum|orichalcum]] [[Will|will]] certainly be pure enough for the purpose they intend it for.