---
IgnoreLinking: False
Title: Imperial sodality
aliases: ['Imperial_sodality']
draft: False
revision_date: 2022-09-26 19:57:53+00:00
revision_id: 96459
tags: ['Sodality', 'The-Empire']
---

## Overview
There are organisations in [[The Empire|the Empire]] that have grown in influence beyond the confines of a single nation. These organisations are collectively referred to as Imperial sodalities. They are associations or societies that have a common purpose and sufficient reach or influence to be relevant to [[The Empire|the Empire]] as a whole - but they are not a direct extension of the Imperial government like the [[Imperial Conclave]] or the [[Imperial Synod]]. They do not receive any logistical [[Assistance|assistance]] from the civil service and most do not benefit from ongoing financial [[Assistance|assistance]] from the [[Imperial Senate]].
## Description
A sodality is any organisation in [[The Empire|the Empire]] that is eligible to citizens from more than one nation. Most sodalities are minor in nature and have no legal status or significance. If Imperial citizens meet up to share different nation's cookery recipes, their organisation does not have or need any legal status. They are free to set their own rules and to do as they please within the limits of [[The Law|the law]].
A sodality gains legal status when its existence is recognised and codified under [[Imperial Law|Imperial law]] which requires a [[Senate motion]]. Some of the most important sodalities in [[The Empire|the Empire]] are the Imperial militia and the various [[Conclave]] orders, all of whose existence and operation is governed by [[Imperial Law|Imperial law]].
## Creating a Sodality
It is not possible for players to create a sodality as part of character creation - the banners, sects and covens that new players can create are based in the nation they choose to play, but the definition of an [[Imperial Sodality|Imperial sodality]] is a group with a reach or scope that extends beyond a single nation. Creating an Empire-spanning organisation is something that must be done in play - not as part of character creation.
To create a sodality in play, you simply need to create an organisation and have people want to join it. The sodality [[Will|will]] not be listed or described on [[The wiki|the wiki]] - it is up to you to promote your sodality in play.
If you want your sodality to have legal status - even if that is simply to have its existence recognised by Imperial [[Law|law]] - then you [[Will|will]] need to have its existence formally acknowledged by the [[Imperial Senate]] using a [[Senate motion]].
## Legal Status
The Imperial [[Senate]] can create a sodality or recognise the existence of one by passing a suitably worded [[Senate motion]]. The simplest way to do this is to create a new [[Imperial Title|Imperial title]] whose responsibilities include representing or leading a sodality. This may be implicit in the wording of a motion - for example in 377YE, [[The Senate|the Senate]] passed a motion to create the [[Captain of the Senate Guard]]. Implicit in the description of this title is the existence of a sodality - the Senate Guard - and that the new position [[Will|will]] assume responsibility and leadership of this sodality.
Under most circumstances, this is all the detail that is required. Provided that the Senate is comfortable to delegate the operation of a sodality to others then nothing further is required. If the Senate wishes, they may allocate funds to support a sodality - but only by granting a stipend or disbursement to a specific citizen - usually whatever title has been created to be responsible for the sodality. Any [[Imperial Sodality|Imperial sodality]] linked to an [[Imperial Title|Imperial title]] [[Will|will]] be described on [[The wiki|the wiki]] page for that title.
A [[Senate motion]] that creates a sodality by appointing a new [[Imperial Title|Imperial title]] to lead it, is assumed to grant that title authority to determine who is and is not a member of the sodality by default. This is the only legal power automatically conferred in this way. These titles do not have legal authority to issue orders to Imperial citizens or restrict what they can or cannot do. In the example of [[The Captain|the Captain]] of the Senate Guard - they have the legal power to specify who is and is not a member of the Senate Guard, but they do not have the legal power to enforce any orders or instructions they give to members of the Guard.
If the Senate wish to go further then it is possible to create laws that dictate how a sodality [[Will|will]] operate or who can join. Such laws are carefully scrutinised by the Constitutional Court to ensure that any benefits are proportionate to the loss of liberties by Imperial citizens.
## Extent
The influence of most sodalities that are created in play does not extend beyond [[Anvil]]. NPCs do not typically join these sodalities and their influence is based solely on the players who join them at [[Events|events]].
It is possible to extend the influence of a sodality beyond [[Anvil]] by creating an appropriate [[Commission]], usually a [[Sinecure|sinecure]], [[Ministry|ministry]] or [[Great work|great work]], but potentially anything. The larger the [[Commission|commission]], the greater the influence it will tend to have. For example the [[Dean of the Lyceum]] is the [[Imperial Title|Imperial title]] associated with the Lyceum, a [[College of Magic]] situated on an island east of Siroc. Membership if the Lyceum is open to magicians from across [[The Empire|the Empire]], so it is a sodality. Player [[Characters|characters]] can roleplay that they study or teach at the Lyceum, and we assume that there are plenty of non-player character magicians associated with it. To create something on a similar scale would require a significant investment of resources.
Senate Further Reading