---
IgnoreLinking: False
Title: Proxy
draft: False
revision_date: 2022-08-13 22:24:13+00:00
revision_id: 94481
tags: ['The_Law', 'The-Empire']
---

::''This page talks about in-character proxies, where a character with an [[Imperial Title]] can appoint someone to act on their behalf. For appointing another ''player'' to act on someone's behalf out-of-character, for example for picking up packs in GOD, see [[Accessibility]]#Getting Help Accessing GOD''
## Overview
A character who holds one of certain Imperial titles - such as a [[Senator|senator]],  [[Cardinal|cardinal]], or [[Archmage|archmage]] may appoint another character to act as their [[Proxy|proxy]] in their absence. Proxies are not uncommon as those with influence and power in [[The Empire|the Empire]] are often absent due to being called away to [[War|war]] or unable to attend [[Anvil]] due to matters at home. The role of proxies has been codified under [[Imperial Law|Imperial law]] and follows simple rules.
## Appointing a [[Proxy]]
There is no required process for appointing a [[Proxy|proxy]] - the most common method is to provide a [[Proxy|proxy]] with a document signed by the character that explicitly grants the named bearer the power of [[Proxy|proxy]], but this is not obligatory. Some prefer to introduce their proxy in person to their peers and personally vouch for their status. Most Imperial citizens expect someone who is acting as a proxy to be able to produce a signed statement of their authority, but this is only relevant if they are challenged.
## Powers of a Proxy
A proxy has the full legal power of the office they have assumed. It is not possible to limit the power of a proxy, you cannot restrict the powers available to them nor direct [[The Way|the way]] they must act or vote. A proxy who bears a document granting them power of authority for a [[Senator|senator]] but only if they vote for a given motion [[Will|will]] be reminded by the Speaker that they have the full powers of their [[Senator|senator]] and that the restriction has no legal standing of any kind. The only limitation is that a proxy may not appoint another citizen to act as their proxy. 
The proxy is treated exactly as if they were the citizen for whom they stand. This may have legal consequences - for instance if a proxy for a [[Senator|senator]] raises a motion in [[The Senate|the Senate]] - then that [[Senator|senator]] is considered to have raised that motion and they may not then raise another motion that weekend.
Although a citizen may not legally constrain or direct the actions of their proxy it is still customary to hold them responsible for the consequences of their proxy's decisions - after all they chose the proxy.
### Restrictions
Only the holder of an [[Imperial Title]] may appoint a proxy, members of representative bodies like [[The Synod|the Synod]] and [[The Conclave|the Conclave]] cannot appoint a proxy to wield their vote in that body. Likewise, citizens who are voting on the [[Appointment|appointment]] of a title in the [[Senate]] or [[Bourse]] cannot appoint a proxy to vote on their behalf.
A senator who appoints a proxy is still forbidden from entering the [[Military Council]], as is their proxy.
[[The Throne]] is prohibited from appointing a proxy - the powers of [[The Empress|the Empress]] may only be wielded when the occupant of [[The Throne|the Throne]] is personally present.
Imperial Generals do not have the power to appoint a Proxy, since the special responsibilities of their position led to the development of the role of  adjutant instead. Adjutants differ from proxies in that they retain the powers of the [[General|general]] should the [[General|general]] perish, although the adjutant's term does ''not'' persist beyond the [[General|general]]'s [[Tenure|tenure]] if the [[General|general]] leaves office for other reasons, such as [[Revocation]] or a [[Writ of Excommunication|writ of excommunication]].
A proxy must be an eligible candidate for the position they are assuming - a Dawnish Senator can only appoint a Dawnish citizen to act as their proxy. A proxy is considered to be an [[Imperial Title]] in its own right, one that is conferred at the point where you accept the position. This means that you cannot accept a position as proxy for an [[Imperial Title|Imperial title]] if you already hold another title, nor can you agree to be proxy for two different Imperial titles. For example, a Dawnish senator could not accept a position as proxy for a member of [[The Bourse|the Bourse]] without first resigning their position as senator.
It is uncommon but not illegal to appoint more than one proxy, but only one character can act as your proxy at a given time - the power cannot be shared. In addition it is illegal for them to act as your proxy at the same time that you are exercising the legal authority of your office. In practice this situation is rare, but can arise with titles such as the [[Warmage]] that grant legal rights in more than one political chamber.
## Challenging a Proxy
Any citizen may [[Challenge|challenge]] a proxy at the point where they attempt to wield the power of their office. If the authority of an individual is challenged, then the [[Magistrates|magistrates]] [[Will|will]] investigate the matter, with the [[Assistance|assistance]] of the relevant civil servants.
If the proxy is attempting to exercise the powers of their office in a chamber, such as the Senate, Military Council, or [[Conclave]], then they are entitled to make a short presentation of the evidence of their [[Appointment|appointment]]. After the evidence is considered then a vote is taken by those present in [[The Chamber|the chamber]] who are eligible to vote whether or not to recognize the proxy. It is publicly considered unvirtuous to vote on political lines rather than on the basis of the evidence presented.
Assuming the powers of a proxy without the authorization of the title holder is illegal - the individual is usually guilty of impersonating an official of the state and subverting the processes of the agencies of the state. Punishment is usually assessed against the degree of self-interest demonstrated by the proxy and the damage incurred by the state as a result.
Surely the most infamous rejection of a proxy took place in the [[Imperial Senate]] during the reign of [[Empress Giselle]] in 343YE. Ymma Eyebiter, senator for [[Hahnmark]] successfully challenged the power of a young woman standing as proxy for Alvaro i [[Guerra]], senator for [[Madruga]] despite the fact that Alvaro was present in [[The Chamber|the chamber]] to testify for his paramour during the [[Challenge|challenge]]. Alvaro's [[Testimony|testimony]] was garbled and he struggled to stand to deliver it due to his intoxication, allowing Ymma to convince [[The Chamber|the chamber]] that his evidence could not be taken at face value due to inebriation. Ymma was widely reviled for her actions, but in the resulting disgruntlement, the [[Wintermark]] senators were able to push through several controversial motions limiting the power of the Bourse.
It should be noted that even if a proxy is successfully challenged and the magistrates determine the individual is guilty of criminal offences, the actions they took up until challenged [[Will|will]] not be rendered obsolete and still be considered valid. The Civil Service [[Will|will]] not retroactively undo the actions of citizens for a successful [[Challenge|challenge]].
Challenges to a proxy are not subject to [[Veto|veto]] by the [[Throne]] or the [[Imperial Synod]].
## Removing a Proxy
The only sure-fire way to remove your proxy is to attend a session in person. A letter to indicate the removal of authority can easily receive short shrift - especially if the proxy retains their own physical statement of power signed by you. The proxy may still be challenged, and countervailing letters [[Will|will]] undermine their authority; but many chambers would rather retain the abilities of a useful member who has proven their [[Wisdom|wisdom]] and [[Worth|worth]] than accept an unknown proxy from an individual who cannot put their affairs in order. Only the physical presence of the actual incumbent ensures the automatic removal of a proxy.
## Proxies in Play
* It is not possible to register your proxy with Profound Decisions.
Proxies are intended to reflect the fact that many players are not able to attend every Empire event, or may be unable to play for part of an event they are attending. We don't want players to be excluded from holding positions of authority in [[The game|the game]] simply because they cannot guarantee to be able to play for all of every event for real world reasons. To this end the rules presented here are intended to be flexible and allow for the broadest possible access to [[The game|the game]].
The rules are also intended to allow players to perpetrate a range of political actions and responses using the legal status of proxies. You cannot ''register'' your proxy with Profound Decisions nor is it acceptable for a player to try to communicate out-of-character information to indicate that they are a genuine proxy. Any attempt to do so will result in the civil servants refusing to accept that player as proxy. Establishing or undermining the authority of a proxy must be left entirely in the hands of the players to be established by their roleplaying.
### Senate
A Senator may appoint a proxy to exercise any of their  powers.
### Military Council
Generals do not appoint proxies as they have  adjutants.
### [[Synod]]
Most of the work of the Synod is undertaken by priests and may therefore not be proxied. The Imperial Titles which are  appointed by the Synod may appoint a proxy.
### Conclave
The Conclave is open to all Imperial mages and most of its [[Business|business]] is undertaken by them. The Imperial Titles which are appointed by the Conclave may appoint a proxy.
### Bourse
Although receipt of Bourse resources is a power of the title holder, the wains (or rings of [[Ilium]]) are distributed directly each season and once received function as personal property which must be transferred between individuals like any other item. If a title holder will not be present at a summit, they may not appoint a proxy to collect Bourse resources at [[Anvil]], but should instead transfer any resources from their inventory before the event.
## Proxies in [[Downtime]]
* It is not possible to appoint a proxy to operate in your place in [[Downtime|downtime]].
A proxy exists to give a player who cannot attend an event a chance to allow another character to act in their steed, as well as to present various [[Opportunities|opportunities]] for political conflict. If your character has a campaign position that grants them some additional powers or abilities in downtime, then you can still make use of these, regardless of whether you attended the event.