---
IgnoreLinking: False
Tags: ['Lineage']
Title: The League lineage and species attitudes
aliases: ['The_League_lineage_and_species_attitudes']
draft: False
revision_date: 2020-02-19 16:11:09+00:00
revision_id: 78766
---

## Overview
For the most part, the citizens of [[The League|the League]] are largely unconcerned by the possession of [[Lineage]], There may be some casual assumptions made about a person's character and tendencies based on the mark of the [[Magic|magic]] in their blood, but actual bigotry is uncommon. The sole exception - as it is in several other nations - is that those with [[Briar]] [[Lineage|lineage]] are often looked down on as lacking subtlety, or being too straightforward to appreciate the complexities of [[League]] society.
## Specific Lineages
The cambions’ instinctive cunning and [[Ambition|ambition]] mean that many of them find a spiritual home in [[The League|the League]]. They are especially encouraged to enter the priesthood, and many consider it fortunate to have a [[Cambion|cambion]] [[Bishop]] perform important ceremonies. The most successful often follow the fashion of capping their horns with bejewelled gold to display their wealth.  
Briars find it hard to achieve high positions in League society. Their often blunt demeanour and tendency towards direct solutions means that they are regularly underestimated. The typical League prejudice is that briars are suited to be [[Bravos|bravos]], and little more. Many briars leave the League when their lineage becomes apparent - and not just because of prejudice. Living for extended periods in the sprawling cities of the League is emotionally and mentally draining for many briars, and the constant pressure of urbanised society can make it increasingly difficult for them to resist the destructive impulses that lurk in their blood. 
__TOC__
## Reckoners
The Reckoners of the great rivers are dominated by several families with strong [[Merrow]] and [[Naga]] lineage. They have done much to establish the position of their lineage in League society. Initially powerful in [[Tassato]], the [[Merrow|merrow]] boatmen of that city began by ferrying citizens across the wide river that separated the twin halves of that city. Over the years, they parlayed their knowledge of the secret assignations of citizens into political and then economic power. Although the boatmen were careful never to pry into the affairs of others, they became experts at deducing some of the nature of other people's [[Business|business]] simply by knowing where they were going and who they were talking to.
When [[Aldones di Sarvos]] brought the cities of the League together the boatmen found themselves in competition with a [[Guild|guild]] of nagas in [[Sarvos]]. This secretive [[Guild|guild]] made a living collecting and compiling lists of favours and debts owed by other [[Guilds|guilds]] - and for a small price revealing the nature of those relationships. The two [[Groups|groups]] soon saw the benefit of cooperation and began to work together as the Guild of Reckoners.
Although there are now several different Guilds of Reckoners, they continue to display a great interest in secret affairs and espionage, supplementing their normal mercantile activities extensively with spying and information brokering. This suits both the merrow interest in truth and the [[Naga|naga]] interest in secrets, and serves as a lucrative sideline. As a consequence, many League citizens expect that any merrow or naga they meet [[Will|will]] have the latest and most salacious gossip.
## Orcs
If the lineages are generally respected and welcomed in the League, the same cannot be said for orcs. For most citizens of the League, [[Imperial Orcs]] represent the worst of both worlds; they constantly remind the citizenry of the [[Barbarian|barbarian]] threat and they often meddle in local schemes on behalf of their Imperial masters. Indeed, orcs tend to be quite unwelcome in [[Holberg]], which suffered extensively at the hands of the [[Druj]] until it was finally freed by Imperial forces late in 378YE.
Few Orcs are interested in deals or profit and thus there is little common ground between them and the average citizen of the League. Since the establishment of the [[College of the Liberated]] near the Sarvosan town of Trivento, that city has seen a rise in the number of orcs plying their trade. For the most part, the ex-Jarmish slaves that the college was originally designed to aid have [[Gone|gone]] elsewhere - mostly moving to [[Skarsind]] to become part of the [[Imperial Orcs]] - but there are still a handful of orc scribes and book keepers in the city following successful apprenticeships.
The League Links