---
IgnoreLinking: False
Tags: ['Archetype', 'The-Marches']
Title: The Marches economic interests
aliases: ['The_Marches_economic_interests']
draft: False
revision_date: 2024-01-18 12:40:31+00:00
revision_id: 107294
---

## Overview
Agriculture is the basis of wealth in [[The Marches|the Marches]]. Even a modest holding produces an income that allows its yeoman to live comfortably. With some improvement, a Marcher [[Farm|farm]] can pay for luxuries and imported goods. Marcher fields and orchards feed people across [[The Empire|the Empire]]. Trade surplus in the form of cured and preserved meats, flitches of bacon, barrels of beer, bushels of fruit and vegetables, sacks of flour, tanned leather and bales of wool travels from one side of [[The Empire|the Empire]] to the other, purchased by intermediaries from [[The Brass Coast]] or [[The League]].
Many of these [[Traders|traders]] come initially to one of the many small but important [[Market Towns|market towns]] that dot the [[Landscape|landscape]]. The first market rights were established by Imperial charter, and towns with these rights are outside the direct control of the households. The inhabitants of a [[Market Town|market town]] appoint aldermen, the rough equivalent of the yeomen, to represent the town. In most cases these folk are wealthy merchants of the town, but often they include prominent town folk such as a [[Friar|friar]] or blacksmith who lives in the village. Those market towns that employ their own militia usually raise [[The Captain|the captain]] to the rank of [[Alderman|alderman]].
Most market towns are small, little more than a few score houses on either side of a main street. The Imperial charters prevent a [[Market Town|market town]] being established within a full [[Day|day]]'s travel of an existing market town but competition and rivalry between market towns is at least as fierce as that between rival households. Because the market towns lack a stake in the political process, they are forced to rely on neighbouring households to represent their interests. While most Marcher folk see this as right and proper, a life of honest toil on the land being superior to a life spent haggling for every last silver, aldermen often have a rather different view.
At the heart of almost every prosperous market town is an inn. These large structures are often fortified, with a wall surrounding the building and adjacent compound. Merchants visiting the town [[Will|will]] usually eat and sleep at the inn but so [[Will|will]] visiting yeomen bringing their goods to market, unless they have relatives who live in the town. Only Meade is large enough to support more than one inn, so the quality of the food and drink provided by a town's inn can have an impact on the [[Prosperity|prosperity]] of the whole town, as foreign merchants may avoid those towns whose inns have a bad reputation.
The innkeeper is almost invariably an alderman of the town and can be one of the wealthiest members of the community. They are often also the best informed; inns tend to be hotbeds of gossip, with news and information being bought and sold as regularly as the drinks.
Many aldermen take great [[Pride|pride]] in their ceremonial chains of office, sometimes referred to as "Chains of [[Prosperity]]".  Several towns maintain a healthy level of competition in providing the most magnificent chain for their representative, and some go so far as to [[Commission|commission]] them as [[Magical Items|magical items]], such as an Alder's Edge.
Anchor|Granaries and Storehouses - the Imperial Breadbasket
## The Imperial Breadbasket
The three northern territories of [[The Marches|the Marches]] - [[Bregasland]], [[Mitwold]], and [[Upwold]] - are dotted with public buildings referred to as a whole as the ''Imperial Breadbasket''. These granaries, barns, warehouses, gain silos, and storage houses are maintained by the civil service, and overseen by the [[Keeper of the Breadbasket]] who makes any important decisions regarding their bounty. They exist to ensure that the farms of the [[Marches]] are prepared to meet any potentially disastrous setbacks such as poor harvests or wide-scale curses. They were completed just before the [[Spring]] Equinox 381YE. Any Marcher [[Farm|farm]]-owner can make use of their services, and at a reasonable price. The [[Great work]] they represent was created as a result of the disasters that beset the nation in 379YE and 380YE.
## Billet
Any Imperial [[General]] can order their troops to billet in either [[Mitwold]] or [[Upwold]], supported by the breadbasket. The [[Opportunity]] to create this special order arose as the result of a [[Mandate]] enacted by Friar John of the Mourn following the Spring Equinox 383YE. If the breadbasket were extended to cover other Marcher territories, the billet order could be taken there as well.
The Marches Links
* [[Keeper of the Breadbasket]] - details the [[History|history]] of the Imperial Breadbasket