---
IgnoreLinking: False
Tags: ['Magic-Item']
Title: Celestial Sigil
aliases: ['Celestial_Sigil']
draft: False
revision_date: 2024-01-26 11:34:26+00:00
revision_id: 107358
---

### Description
A [[Celestial Sigil]] is a magical standard that is infused with the power of mana. Woven from soft wool, bleached with beggar's lye, reinforced with sungold and moonsilver, and carefully embroidered with fine silk threads imbued with [[Iridescent gloaming|iridescent gloaming]], they often depict astronomantic [[Constellations|constellations]]. The [[Banner|banner]] pole is invariably of [[Weirwood|weirwood]], often shod and bound with [[Mithril|mithril]], and embellished with [[Dragonbone|dragonbone]]. It is most popular with the [[Urizen]] (unsurprisingly), but warbands of Dawnish witches are also known to favour the power of this magical standard. Some Varushkans call it a ''Firebird Banner'', referencing both the [[Constellation|constellation]] of [[The Phoenix]] (with which it is often adorned), and [[The Way|the way]] that the standard empowers magical healers to restore man additional warriors - or sear their enemies with devastating incantations.
The bearer of the standard can tap into a deep reserve of extra mana allowing them to perform many more incantations than they might otherwise - something not usually possible with a magical talisman. Some banner bearers draw on the standard's [[Magic|magic]] to allow them to [[Heal]] or [[Empower]] their allies. More martially inclined banner bearers - especially Dawnish [[War|war]]-witches and Imperial orc warcasters prefer to [[Fight|fight]] with a [[Celestial Sigil]] in one hand and a rod in other (especially magical rods that further increase their magical prowess). By combining the power of a Celestial Sigil with items such as a Neophyte's Aid, a Battlesmith's Panoply, or an [[Ashen Mantle]], a martial [[Magician|magician]] can increase their reserves of personal power even further.
The most famous ''Celestial Sigil'' was carried into battle in pre-Imperial days by the sentinels of [[Urizen]].  A valuable artefact, it served as a rallying point for mages and sentinels of the [[Citadel Guard]] - perhaps most famously when some of them accompanied the ritualists supporting the nascent Empire in the final battle against [[Alderei the Fair]]. Historians record that it was one of the first banners to bear the beautiful image of [[The Phoenix]] that adorns many Urizeni banners and standards to this [[Day|day]]. Sadly, the artefact was lost in 54YE during the scouring of [[Redoubt]]. The standard was consumed in black flame by the [[Will|will]] of the ''Ashenblood Knight'', a powerful servant of the [[Eternal|eternal]] [[Surut]]. The exact circumstances of its destruction are unclear. Some historians claim the Ashenblood Knight was fighting for the orcs and destroyed the sigil after defeating its bearer, Salome of Highwatch, in a duel. Others disagree and claim that Salome offered the standard as [[Tribute to the Thrice-Cursed Court|tribute to the Thrice-cursed Court]] to bind the Ashenblood Knight to her service for a time. Regardless, this powerful symbol of Urizen martial might was lost forever in the early years of [[The Empire|the Empire]]. In the centuries since, however, many generals of the [[Citadel Guard]] have made a point of fighting under a Celestial Sigil, perceiving it as a powerful reminder of the victories of the past - and the [[Cost|cost]] of failure.
The Celestial Sigil is a symbol of magical power, and as such it often encourages its bearers to seek out and overcome other magicians. On [[The Battlefield|the battlefield]], this means the standard is favoured by regiments who have good reason to [[Fight|fight]] powerful sorcerous foes - although it does occasionally cause problems when the banner is carried in other places especially the [[Imperial Conclave]].
### Rules
Magical Standards
* Effect: While wielding this standard you gain five additional personal mana
* [[Roleplaying effect|Roleplaying Effect]]: This banner seems to vibrate under your fingers. While wielding it, you feel an urge to identify and defeat enemy magicians.
* [[Materials]]: Crafting a Celestial Sigil requires seven ingots of [[Orichalcum|orichalcum]], seven ingots of [[Weltsilver|weltsilver]], thirteen measures of dragonbone, eleven measures of beggar's lye, and twenty measures of iridescent gloaming. It takes one month to make one of these items.