---
revision_id: 51786
revision_date: 2017-04-18T14:19:39Z
Tags:
- Magic-Item
draft: false
Title: Fireglass
---
## Description
A ''[[Fireglass]]'' sometimes called a ''Mirror of the Virtuous'' is a ceremonial tool that most commonly takes the form of a mirror, usually decorated with gold and pieces of red [[Materials#Tempest Jade|tempest jade]]. It can be used by a priest trained in the ceremony of [[Anointing]] to rekindle the passions of a target, replenishing their [[Heroic skills#Hero|spiritual strength]]. As with any religious ceremony of the Way, using the [[Fireglass]] requires a dose of [[Liao]] which is used as normal for an anointing ceremony. The traditional way to use the [[Fireglass]] item is for the subject to look at their own visage in the mirror while the priest performs their ceremony, inspiring the subject by telling them that their reflection shows a heroic or virtuous individual.
The first people to make extensive use of the Fireglass were the priests of the Brass Coast. While similar items were known before the foundation of the Empire it was not until 42YE that the [[Magic items#Schema|schema]] for this [[Magic Items|magic item]] was made available to the [[Crafting skills#Artisan|artisans]] of the Empire by agreement of the Freeborn Assembly. It proved especially popular in [[Urizen]], [[The League]], and among the [[Troubadour|troubadours]] of [[Dawn]] for different reasons. The Urizen saw in the Fireglass a reflection of profound philosophical ideas around [[Urizen hearth magic#Light|light]] and [[Urizen hearth magic#The eye|vision]]; the League were fascinated by the ability of a [[The League hearth magic#Mirrors|mirror]] to show the truth - in this case, the truth of the recipients destined power; and the troubadours saw a great opportunity to exalt the champions of Dawn and drive them to embrace [[Glory]].
The item takes its common name from [[The Brass Coast]], but historians suggest that similar items may date back to pre-Imperial [[Highguard]] and the existence of the semi-mythical [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sunstone_(medieval) sunstones] used by ancient navigators. These spheres of naturally occurring crystal are said not only to have aided in locating the sun on an overcast day but also to observe the auras (or "halos") around heroic or powerful people. In the absence of any still existing examples, the true properties of this miraculous mineral cannot easily be assessed.
## Rules
Regalia
* Effect: Three times per day when you use the [[Anointing]] skill you may restore a spent [[Heroic skills#Hero|hero]] point to your target rather than creating a [[Aura#Personal Aura|personal aura]].
* Materials: Crafting a Fireglass requires nine ingots of [[Materials#Tempest Jade|tempest jade]], seven ingots of [[Materials#Orichalcum|orichalcum]], five measures of [[Materials#Green Iron|green iron]], ten measures of [[Materials#Dragonbone|dragonbone]].  It takes one month to make one of these items.
"Look closely, friend! This is what Virtue looks like. This is the face of someone who will not stumble, who strives, in whose heart burns an eternal flame that cannot be quenched! This is what a hero looks like. This is what Virtue looks like."