---
revision_id: 107275
revision_date: 2024-01-17T17:19:22Z
Tags:
- Magic-Item
draft: false
Title: Marauder_s Cote
aliases:
- Marauder's_Cote
---
The Marauder's Cote often takes the form of a sturdy leather coat with strategically placed sections of reinforced leather. It provides some protection to vital organs, but the main thrust of the magic that empowers it is not defensive, but offensive, in nature. The Marauder's Cote allows the wearer to strike mighty blows that can cripple or disable their opponents. The runes [[Tykonus]] and [[Jotra]] are commonly used to enhance and empower the armour - engraved on the leather sections, or sometimes scored into the shoulders and arms. In both cases they may be inlaid with small amounts of [[Materials#Green Iron|green iron]], or greensteel.
The [[Jotun]] are known to make use of this armour; indeed some scholars suggest that the first suits used by humans were captured from the [[Orc|orcs]]. An old [[Wintermark]] story tells of three siblings who set off on a heroic quest to seize the secret of the Marauder's Cote from the western orcs. Each sibling hatches a different plan; one challenges the orc runesmiths and tries to take the secret by force; one uses [[Night magic]] to try and tease the secret from the mind of the sleeping runesmith; and one tries to steal the secret through cunning and trickery. Depending who is telling the story, two of the siblings fail but the third succeeds and brings the secret (a [[Magic items#Schema|schema]], if there is any truth to the story) back to Wintermark. Interestingly, the Jotun are said to tell a similar story - but in their version, a runesmith is inspired by a "powerful spirit" to set three challenges for a single Wintermark hero who seeks the secret of the Marauders Cote. The hero overcomes the challenges, and is rewarded with a tablet containing the secret of crafting the magical armour. Imperial scholars familiar with this version of the story suggest that the powerful spirit may well be one of the Summer [[Eternal|eternals]] - most likely [[Barien]] or [[Cathan Canae]].
Regardless of where it came from, the Marauder's Cote waxes and wanes in popularity among Imperial soldiers. It is obviously of most use to a someone who already possesses a reserve of [[Heroic skills#Hero|inner strength]], but it can also be useful to someone wielding a [[Trollslayer's Crescent]], or bearing an [[Enchantment]] such as [[Still Waters, Running Deep]]. 
The main advantage of the armour is that it is cheap to make and reasonably lightweight; two factors that have seen it enjoy an enduring popularity among the [[Yeofolk of Dawn|yeofolk]] of [[Dawn]] where it is usually called a ''Yeofolk's Hauberk'', and in parts of Wintermark where it is called either a ''Marauder's Secret'' by those familiar with the poetic history of the item, or a ''Marauder's Bite'' by those who have been on the receiving end of a Jotun orc wearing it.
It is also popular with some [[Imperial Orcs]], where it is often known as a ''Reaver's Cuirass''. The association with [[Imperial Orcs economic interests#Reavers|reavers]] means that some orcs look down on it and its wearers. Those who favour its use however are quick to mention tales of Redsword Ferrak, a former gladiator, who used a ''Reaver's Cuirass'' throughout her career. From her first fights in the illegal battle pits of [[Sarvos]]; through [[The Orc Rebellion]]; during her tenure as [[General]] of the [[Imperial Orcs territories#The Summer Storm|Summer Storm]]; during her several "sabbaticals" during which she lead reaving bands to raid the Broken Shore and the Mallum. Her armour took the form of a thick leather front-and-back plates secured at the shoulders, with runes marking the shoulder blades, and this is the common form used by orcs today. It has also been adopted by some [[The League|League]] [[Bravo|bravos]] inspired by tales of the orc hero's relentless aggression.
## Rules
Medium Armour
* Effect: You may spend a [[Heroic skills#Hero Points|hero point]] to call [[Calls#CLEAVE|CLEAVE]] with any melee weapon you can wield, except a [[Weapons & Armour#Pike|pike]].
* Materials: Crafting a Marauder's Cote requires no special [[Materials|materials]]. It takes two months to make one of these items.