---
IgnoreLinking: False
Tags: ['Magic-Item']
Title: Mask of Gold and Lead
aliases: ['Mask_of_Gold_and_Lead']
draft: False
revision_date: 2019-07-19 18:02:37+00:00
revision_id: 75279
---

## Description
The [[Mask of Gold and Lead]] empowers a ritualist with the ability to transmute raw [[Materials|materials]]. The mask itself is almost always metallic in nature, often set with jewels. All the [[Materials|materials]] used to make it are repeatedly purified in baths of beggar's lye, and some of the finest masks are said to be constructed with substances that have been themselves subjected to alchemical transformations.  It is rare to find a [[Mask of Gold and Lead]] that does not incorporate [[Xun]], the [[Rune]] of Transformation, often on the forehead of the mask. The rune is often concealed, however - worked into a decorative design, or inscribed on the inside of the mask. While the mask usually covers the entire face, another common design is that of a lower face mask (covering the mouth, nose and chin), often with simple filters incorporated to protect the wearer when they interact with dangerous substances.
In [[Wintermark]], the [[Kallavesi]] favour masks in the form of ravens or magpies (for their connection to the Imperial virtues of [[Wisdom]] and [[Prosperity]]), while Varushkan [[Mystics|mystics]] prefer masks in the shape of squirrels or bees - both ''Silver Squirrel'' or ''Golden Bee'' are names associated with this [[Magical Item|magical item]]. In both [[The Brass Coast]] and [[Highguard]], specially prepared veils weighted with [[Dragonbone|dragonbone]] and coloured with [[Iridescent gloaming|iridescent gloaming]] are employed, wrapped around the face and head either as a shroud or a tagelmust.
These talismans are sometimes referred to as an ''Alchemist's Refrain''. While they usually take the form of masks, a few of these foci are crafted in the form of a jewelled brooch depicting a pestle and mortar, cauldron or alembic (or a squirrel or bee, for Varushkan ritualists). A few very rare examples of actual tools exist - an inscribed metal flask or set of scales intended for [[Ritual|ritual]] use in measuring or alchemically treating the target [[Materials|materials]].
As with all the magical masks, these foci are used to grant additional power to perform ritual [[Magic|magic]]. In this case, the ''[[Mask of Gold and Lead]]'' empowers [[The Eight-Spoked Wheel]] and [[The Retrograde Wheel]] [[Rituals|rituals]] - both [[Rituals|rituals]] that deal with the magical transmutation of one material into another. They also provide an additional level of power to the alchemical transmutation worked by the powerful Distill the Serpent's Stone ritual, potentially bringing that powerful magical effect within reach of a smaller [[Coven|coven]].
## Rules
Foci
* Effect: Gain 1 rank for [[The Eight-Spoked Wheel]], [[The Retrograde Wheel]], Distill the Serpent's Stone, and [[Amalgamation of Silver and Gold]] [[Rituals|rituals]], subject to the normal rules for effective skill. In addition, for each contributor to either [[The Eight-Spoked Wheel|the Eight-Spoked Wheel]] or [[The Retrograde Wheel|the Retrograde wheel]] who wears one of these masks, three additional ingots or measures of material can be transmuted without increasing the magnitude of the ritual. All measures or ingots targeted by one of these [[Rituals|rituals]] must be of the same type as usual.
* [[Materials]]: Crafting a [[Mask of Gold and Lead]] requires five measures of beggar's lye, three measures of dragonbone, and three measures of [[Iridescent gloaming|iridescent gloaming]]. It takes one month to make one of these items.
We are not the alchemists of old, those that would use [[Herbs|herbs]] and ale to form 'a great hardening of steel'! They would have you take dragon wort with ale and much vervain and sow that into lukewarm water, boil it all up and then place your hot billet therein 'that hardening is good for all hand-weapons'. We do not mix lead with [[Marrowort|marrowort]] and straw, heat it upon a rock under the moon and expect it to form into gold. No. That is not alchemy, mere buffoonery!