---
IgnoreLinking: False
Tags: ['Magic-Item', 'Gonfalon']
Title: Mercenary Banner
aliases: ['Mercenary_Banner']
draft: False
revision_date: 2018-05-23 13:32:45+00:00
revision_id: 63775
---

## Description
Mercenary banners are an old [[Magical Item|magical item]] whose invention dates back to the early days of [[The Empire|the Empire]]. When the [[Urizen]] joined [[The Empire|the Empire]], it was their [[Sentinel Gate]] that allowed the elite forces of the Empire to be so effective on [[The Battlefield|the battlefield]]. The only drawback was [[The Way|the way]] the essential nature of the [[Gate]] made life difficult for mercenary [[Groups|groups]] and other military [[Bands|bands]]. Such groups could choose to [[Fight|fight]] with their nation - or not at all. In response, Alda de [[Tassato]], the infamous leader of the Silver Blades Carta, did a deal with the eternals of the [[Autumn]] for a year of service in return for help creating the schema for the first [[Mercenary Banner|mercenary banner]]. She named the item the ''Gonfalon of [[Prosperity]]'' - but today most folk simply call them mercenary banners.
Centuries after their creation these banners remain most popular among the [[Free Companies]] of [[The League|the League]] - but despite the name their use is not solely restricted to mercenary companies. They are also used by companies of [[Urizen]] sentinels, for example, who embrace the doctrine of offering [[Assistance|assistance]] at the vital moment on foreign battlefields. Some [[Bands|bands]] may make temporary use of a [[Mercenary Banner|mercenary banner]] to allow them to [[Fight|fight]] alongside allies when their nation is committed elsewhere - for example several companies of Hercynian thorns fought alongside their [[Wintermark]] allies in [[Skarsind]] before that [[Territory]] was originally lost to the [[Thule]], even though the rest of the [[Navarr]] nation was committed against the [[Jotun]] in the west.
## Rules
* Form: Gonfalon. Takes the form of a gonfalon decorated with the [[Banner|banner]]'s symbol.
* Effect: A banner bonded to this gonfalon may travel to a battle that their national banner is not attending.
* [[Materials]]: Crafting a mercenary banner requires eighteen measures of [[Dragonbone|dragonbone]], seven ingots of [[Green iron|green iron]], five ingots of [[Orichalcum|orichalcum]], and nine measures of [[Iridescent gloaming|iridescent gloaming]]. It takes one month to make one of these items.
A mercenary banner can only be invoked during the [[Muster]] of the [[Imperial Military Council]]. This is the point where the Imperial generals agree which nations [[Will|will]] fight on which side of the battle. The [[Enchantment|enchantment]] is activated by the band member swearing an oath of service which must be accepted by the Imperial [[General|general]] whose nation the band [[Will|will]] fight with. Every single character that is a member of the band at the point where the [[Magic|magic]] is invoked is affected by the [[Enchantment|enchantment]]. From that moment they may only use a major conjunction of [[The Sentinel|the Sentinel]] Gate with the nation they have sworn to serve for the remainder of that event. A ref is required to activate the enchantment.
A mercenary banner allows a band to fight on Saturday rather than Sunday - or vice versa - it does not allow a group to fight in both [[Battles|battles]]. Regardless of any in-character considerations, all players are always obliged to follow the rule to monster one battle if they play the other.
The power of the [[Sentinel]] Gate is limited; to avoid disaster, the generals must balance the sides they will send on each conjunction using the numbers provided for them by the civil service. When a group activates their mercenary banner - the civil service will provide all the generals with updated numbers taking account of the ''effective'' change of nation by the band for that event. The generals can then balance their forces in light of the fact that the mercenary banner will be fielded alongside another nation.
[[General]] Dhana i [[Riqueza]] stared at the young boy stood before him, her incredulous expression revealing her disbelief. "Where is Captain Mateusz?" she demanded.
The boy straightened slightly, and smiled. He couldn't be more than thirteen years, but he looked the [[Freeborn]] general square in the eye. "Drunk sir. Three sheets to the wind. I'm here to give the oath." 
The boy looked nervous, his hand clenched tight on the banner pole. Perhaps he was drunk as well and it was the only thing holding him up. The [[Hakima]] snorted with derision. "I'm not paying to hire a boy - let alone one not old enough to be blooded on the field. Get me your captain. NOW!" There were only minutes left until the end of the [[Muster|muster]] - the boy had better run and get his captain or the whole damn plan was going to fall apart.
"Captain always get drunk the [[Night|night]] before a battle sir. Says it's best to fight with a hang-over. I'm here to swear the oath."
"I'm not paying seven thrones for a boy's oath." She turned her back on the boy, sighing as she did so. Now everything would have to be planned again.
The sound of the steel shod foot of the banner pole slamming into the wooden floor echoed round [[The Senate|the Senate]], silencing the room. The boy reached up and untied the banner allowing it to unfurl under its own weight. A blood red eagle rampant stared down at the Freeborn general.
"I am Patryk van [[Temeschwar]], oath-sworn banner-man of the [[Holberg]] Eagles. I swear the Eagles will take the field for you. And you owe me seven thrones."
The [[Hakima]] general eyed the banner - the gonfalon - and silently cursed herself for a fool. She'd never seen a mercenary banner before but she remembered too late what the [[Scrivener|scrivener]] had told her of how they worked. The oath the boy had sworn would bind his whole banner to her if she accepted it. He might look barely old enough to pass citizenship but if the Eagles trusted him enough to give him their colours... then she was done under-estimating him.