---
revision_id: 93667
revision_date: 2022-07-24T18:01:37Z
Tags:
- Magic-Item
draft: false
Title: Thorn_s Dance
aliases:
- Thorn's_Dance
---
### Description
A thorn's dance allows the banner bearer to aid their allies by restoring crippled limbs. The banner pole is usually carved of spruce or yew wood, making significantly more flexible than similar standards. The wood is treated with [[Materials#Beggar#s Lye|beggar's lye]] and [[Materials#Ambergelt|ambergelt]] to reinforce these qualities, causing the pole to bend rather than snap. The banner itself tends to present a dark field, with a device picked out in [[Materials#Iridescent Gloaming|striking]], vibrant colour. Among the [[Navarr]], the banner is often edged with entwining briars, the tangling thorns suggesting the way the power of the banner can be used to fuse broken bones and knit torn sinew and flesh together. The banner pole is often marked with the [[Runes|Rune]] of [[Rhyv|Blood]], representing physical health, or with the Rune of [[Verys|Might]] to symbolise physical strength.
The banner takes its name from the [[Thorn|Navarr warriors]] who first made extensive use of it. Many thorns favour [[Weapons %26 armour#Light Armour|light]] and [[Weapons %26 armour#Medium Armour|medium]], prioritising speed and ease of movement over [[Weapons %26 armour#Heavy Armour|heavier]] forms of protection. While aids their ability to outflank and outmanoeuvre their enemies, it also leaves them vulnerable to deadly arrows and savage melee attacks. The Thorn's Dance standard can help alleviate some of these problems, especially when it is borne into battle by someone who also possesses training in [[Surgical skills#Physick|battlefield medicine]]. 
The magical properties also makes the banner popular among many regiments of [[The Brass Coast|Freeborn]] [[The Brass Coast military concerns#Kohan|kohan]]. There the banner often takes the form of a flag or pair of flags, and rather than the symbolism of thorns and briars they are usually worked with colours and designs suggesting wind, water, and fire. The Freeborn call them ''Firedance Flags'' and there is a tradition that the banner bearer be a [[The Brass Coast religious beliefs|sutannir]] who wields the flag in complex swirling motions while supporting the passionate warriors of the Brass Coast.
For similar reasons, the Thorn's Dance also sees use among [[Magical skills#Battle Mage|battlemages]] who rely on the protection granted by [[Weapons %26 Armour#Mage Armour|mage armour]]. In [[Urizen]] for example, cadres of elite warrior-magicians may be supported by a version of this banner they term a ''Red Fountain'', often with the stars of [[Astronomancy|astronomantic]] constellation known as [[The Fountain]] picked out subtly on the banner in [[Materials#Weltsilver|moonsilver]] threads.
Archers can also benefit from this banner - the [[Unconquered]], the [[The Marches military concerns#Bounders|Bounders]], and the [[Yeofolk of Dawn|yeofolk]] of [[Dawn]] in particular make use of this banner. These archers often favour lighter armour than other soldiers of their nation, but are rendered useless by the loss of a single limb. In all three of these nations it is common to see the image of a [[Legendary beasts#Hydra|hydra]] worked into the standard somewhere - on the banner itself in Dawn, or coiled around the banner pole in Highguard and the Marches.
### Rules
Magical Standards
* Effect: Five times per day you may engage in five seconds of appropriate roleplaying to restore the use of a limb that has been ruined by the [[Calls#CLEAVE|cleave]] or [[Calls#IMPALE|impale]] call. The roleplaying must include manipulating the ruined limb. If you or your target attacks another character or either of you are hit then the attempt to use this ability fails. The charge is not lost but you must begin the roleplaying again.
* Roleplaying Effect: Touching this banner causes your fingers to tingle unpleasantly. While wielding it you are keenly aware of the needs of those around you.
* Materials:Crafting a Thorn's Dance requires nine ingots of [[Materials#Weltsilver|weltsilver]], fifteen measures of [[Materials#Ambergelt|ambergelt]], thirteen measures of [[Materials#Dragonbone|dragonbone]], ten measures of [[Materials#Beggar's Lye|beggar's lye]] and nine measures of [[Materials#Iridescent Gloaming|iridescent gloaming]]. It takes one month to make one of these items.