---
IgnoreLinking: False
Tags: ['Tonics', 'Potions']
Title: Tonics of the Open Sky
aliases: ['Tonics_of_the_Open_Sky']
draft: False
revision_date: 2023-05-12 20:45:25+00:00
revision_id: 100684
---

The [[Tonics of the Open Sky]] are useful preparations that slow bleeding and help mitigate injury. They  allow a severely injured warrior finds it easier to endure their wounds, granting valuable time for a healer or [[Chirurgeon|chirurgeon]] to reach them. More than one veteran is alive today because of one of these preparations, and they are often referred to as ''elixirs of lifekeeping'' as a consequence. 
The [[Herbs|herbs]] used to brew these potions are dissolved in a small amount of alcohol. Unlike the harsher [[Tonics of the Deep Forest]], the [[Tonics of the Open Sky|tonics of the open sky]] require a much weaker solution and usually possess a more mellow flavour. The recipes originated in [[The Brass Coast|the Brass Coast]] in pre-Imperial times. While they were initially a secret of the [[Riqueza]] [[Family|family]], the method of brewing these lifesaving tonics quickly spread to the other [[Freeborn]] families. In the decades before the formation of [[The Empire|the Empire]], Freeborn merchants engaged in a lucrative trade in selling them to foreign warriors. After [[The Brass Coast|the Brass Coast]] joined [[The Empire|the Empire]] it was only a matter of time before the recipes became generally known. To pre-empt this, a [[Family|family]] of the [[Riqueza]] simultaneously sold the formulae to no fewer than fourteen apothecaries in various nations, often through intermediaries, for quite astronomical sums of money. When challenged, their [[Dhomiro|dhomiro]] simply shrugged, and said it was better to sell something while it still had value than to allow it to be stolen.
In [[Wintermark]], these tonics are collectively termed the ''[[Grimnir]]'s Cloak.'' According to a popular legend, Grimnir Kaisa Bloodwing served the [[Potion|potion]] to all the warriors of her Hall before a vicious battle against a besieging orc force. Her foresight meant that the healers were able to save more warriors than the orcs were able to bring down, patch them up, and return them to the fray. In the end the defending forces were victorious. While some historians question the veracity of this story, few can dispute the deeper truth - that no matter how wounded someone may be, if a healer can reach them in time, they can be saved.  
## [[Tonic of Sunlit Glass]]
This preparation is most effective when drunk by someone who already possesses deep reserves of fortitude. Even more than its protective properties, it is valued for its ability to inspire a positive attitude in those about to take to battle. As the Highborn [[General|general]] Aaron of Redwater wrote in his journal "''Believing you can win is not enough by itself, but it is the first step along the road to victory.''" 
* Form: Liquid.
* Description: When this translucent yellow-gold liquid catches the light it seems almost to glow. It has a faint scent of lemons, and a tiny drop on your tongue tastes of freshly squeezed oranges.
* [[Roleplaying effects|Roleplaying Effects]]: You feel a sudden burst of optimism and a rush of positive emotions; you are reminded of past triumphs, hopes and dreams.
* Mechanical Effects: You gain an additional rank of fortitude until the next sunrise. This is a tonic; the effect of any other tonic you have drunk immediately ends.
* Recipe: One dram of [[Cerulean Mazzarine]] and one dram of [[Imperial Roseweald]].
OOC Note
In common with all tonics, it is important to remember that you cannot be under the effect of more than one at a time. This means even though the [[Tonic of Surging Flame]] gives you a one-use ability, you cannot combine it with another tonic nor can you drink more than one at a time to try and stack uses of unstoppable.
When you use the ability granted by the Tonic of Surging Flame, you follow all the rules for using unstoppable. For example, if you plan to use the ability to regain lost hits, it still takes five seconds to drink the [[Potion|potion]] and five seconds to use the unstoppable skill for a total of ten seconds of [[Appropriate roleplaying|appropriate roleplaying]] to regain three hits. This also means that the hits restored are affected by items such as [[Goldenfire Scale]], that you cannot use the ability while weakened or paralysed, and so on.
## Tonic of Surging Flame
This potent preparation provides a valuable healing benefit. At its most basic, it allows the drinker to "store up" the power to restore themselves with a few moments of concentration, releasing healing energy to flow through their bodies. More potently, if the drinker is mortally wounded, the elixir unlocks inside their body and suddenly fills them with renewed life and enthusiasm, healing their wounds and driving them back to their feet. If there is a downside it is that the nature of the preparation itself almost encourages the drinker to take foolhardy risks. The tonic dulls the sense of self-preservation that many consider so important to their continued survival. Some warriors, especially among the Freeborn, the Dawnish and the [[Steinr]], welcome the feelings of self-assurance that the Tonic of Surging Flame brings with it, and are driven to ever more courageous and glorious acts.
* Form: Liquid.
* Description: This thin tangerine liquid has a thick layer of darker sediment at the bottom; shake the container and it quickly settles down again. It smells strongly of apricots - or perhaps oranges - and has a tart, citrus taste.
* [[Roleplaying effects|Roleplaying Effects]]: Warmth spreads from your stomach to your entire body, and persists for the duration of the effect. It brings with it feelings of absolute confidence in your ability to survive no matter what happens. You find it hard to remember that risky behaviour might result in permanent injury or death.
* Mechanical Effects: Once today you may use the unstoppable skill as if you know it without spending hero points. The effect remains until used or until the next sunrise. This is a tonic; the effect of any other tonic you have drunk immediately ends.
* Recipe: Two drams each of [[Imperial Roseweald]] and [[True Vervain]], and one dram of [[Cerulean Mazzarine]].
## [[Tonic of the Distant Shore]]
This powerful elixir that can easily triple the bleeding-out time of the average person, and has even more dramatic effects when drunk by someone who already possesses uncommon reserves of fortitude. There are plenty of stories of warriors who survive for hours after they are incapacitated by their enemies, only to be rescued by a friend or passing stranger. While many are almost certainly exaggerated there is no doubt that under the right circumstances this elixir can grant a miraculous ability to stave off death.
It takes its name from an old Freeborn story in which the heroic [[Corsair]] Bolivar i [[Riqueza]] tricks Death during a thunderstorm, engaging that dark spirit in a contest of riddles and enigmas. Constantly playing for time, Bolivar keeps the malign entity guessing until the storm passes and the ship reaches shore, saving not only himself and his vessel but all his crew in the process. It is not uncommon to see death mocked or presented as a bumbling idiot in Freeborn humour and a draught of this tonic is often accompanied by a toast that taunts the ever-present spectre of Death. 
* Form: Liquid.
* Description: When this cherry-red liquid catches the light it seems to glow. A droplet of this sticky fluid on your fingertip stains it a deep crimson. It smells strongly of fresh berries and has a sweet, dry, fruity flavour.
* Roleplaying Effects: You feel a sudden burst of optimism and renewed hope; feelings of worry, doubt and uncertainty are banished.
* Mechanical Effects: You gain an additional three ranks of fortitude until the next sunrise. This is a tonic; the effect of any other tonic you have drunk immediately ends.
* Recipe: Two drams each of [[Imperial Roseweald]] and [[Marrowort]], and one dram of [[Cerulean Mazzarine]].
PotionTable|Tonics of the Open Sky