---
IgnoreLinking: False
Tags: ['Military-Council', 'Imperial-Army', 'Dawn']
Title: Gryphon_s Pride
aliases: ["Gryphon's_Pride"]
draft: False
revision_date: 2023-12-29 18:03:46+00:00
revision_id: 106654
---

## Overview
In the [[History|history]] of [[The Empire|the Empire]], two Dawnish armies have borne the name and [[Banner|banner]] of the Gryphon's [[Pride]]. The first was founded in 51YE, and tragically lost during a doomed attempt to capture [[The Barrens]] in 276YE. In 378YE, the [[Imperial Senate]] commissioned the restoration of the army, a task that was completed shortly before the [[Spring]] Equinox 380YE. 
Today, the fourth Dawnish [[General]] leads the Gryphon's [[Pride]] army, and is appointed (or re-appointed) at the Spring equinox each year.
## History
The original Gryphon's [[Pride]] was raised to support the [[Golden Sun]] and the [[Hounds of Glory]] in the conquest of [[Semmerholm]]. Under the guidance of [[General]] Benedick de Padia, the army distinguished itself against the orcs, and were instrumental in breaking the siege of Ulvenholme. Once [[Semmerholm]] was secure, [[General]] Benedick agitated in the [[Imperial Military Council]] for permission to continue into [[Holberg]] and [[The Barrens]]. Unfortunately, with Imperial forces committed to drawn-out campaigns in [[Urizen]], [[Highguard]], [[The Brass Coast|the Brass Coast]] and [[The Marches|the Marches]], the Dawnish generals were unable to secure support for further expansion. 
__TOC__
Eight decades later, when [[The Empire|the Empire]] underwent a period of expansion during the reign of [[Empress Varkula]], it was [[General]] Beatrice Coyne who led the glorious charge into [[Holberg]]. Following the controversial end to that campaign, [[General|general]] Beatrice vowed that the Gryphon's [[Pride]] would never [[Fight|fight]] alongside an army of [[League]] soldiers again - a vow that ultimately saw her revoked from her position. She disappeared in [[The Mallum]] shortly afterwards along with several of her house, wearing the blue-and-gold surcote of the [[Questing knight|questing knight]]. While the senators of [[Dawn]] denied any lingering resentment, the Gryphon's [[Pride]] did not [[Fight|fight]] in a campaign alongside League armies for the next twenty years.
Although the generals of the Gryphon's Pride have traditionally supported the expansion of [[The Empire|the Empire]], and of [[Dawn]] in particular, they have also played an important role in preserving its borders. When the eastern orcs launched a surprise attack against Dawnguard in 206YE, the Gryphon's Pride defended the Dawnish settlements there for three months, single-handedly holding the line against an estimated fifteen thousand [[Barbarian|barbarian]] warriors. The army was severely depleted, but thanks to their [[Heroism|heroism]], and the foresight of general Claudio Aurelius the orcs were held at bay long enough for the [[Black Thorns]] and the Hounds of [[Glory]] to reinforce the Towers of the [[Dawn]] and halt the [[Barbarians|barbarians]]' advance.
Berena de Lyongate
The last general of the Gryphon's Pride before their destruction is a somewhat controversial figure. A capable warrior, she was regularly appointed as [[Field Marshal]] during expeditions through the [[Sentinel Gate]], and her followers bragged that no force led by Berena had ever been defeated - whether through the [[Gate]] or in the wider campaign.
While contemporary accounts suggest she was respected, idolised even by some nobles, she was not without her flaws. Impetuous, and given to overconfidence, some military historians have argued that her victories were often secured at great [[Cost|cost]]. While she prospered during the reign of [[Empress Brannan]], her devil-may-care attitudes were a poor fit for [[The Empire|the Empire]] under the guidance of [[Emperor James]].
While it was not widely discussed, some stories suggest that Berena did not die at the hands of the [[Druj]], but rather as the result of some hitherto unrevealed [[Curse|curse]] or illness. Obviously eyewitness accounts of her death are hard to come by and unreliable, but some historians point to stories of her dying of a broken heart at the height of an engagement against the [[Druj]]. Denied their inspirational leader, the soldiers of the Gryphon's Pride refused to quit the field; instead they followed her final order to engage the orcs and allow the other Imperial forces to withdraw to the safety of Drycastle. Glorious to the last, the knights and yeofolk fell as much in service to their legendary general as to secure the survival of the other armies.
Attempts were made to recognise Berena as an Exemplar of various virtues, but [[The Synod|the Synod]] rejected each one. [[Cardinal]] Leonato de [[Sarvos]] of the [[Assembly]] of [[Courage]] put the final nail in her coffin with a [[Statement of Principle]] before the [[General Assembly]] in which the [[Synod]] of the time denounced acts of "foolish vainglory" as being unvirtuous.
Since the destruction of the Pride, questing knights have spend the better part of a century scouring [[The Barrens|the Barrens]] for relics of the army and its captains. Berena de Lyongate's golden armour, and the last [[War|war]]-standard of the Gryphon's Pride, were both recovered in 378YE following clues revealed in the [[Past life vision|past life vision]] of a [[Wintermark]] hero, Horsa Tyrshalt. The golden armour came into the possession of Vincent Vexille, then leading the [[Eastern Sky]], creating some controversy as supporters of the Gryphon's Pride believed the relic should be surrendered to that army's general.Several other relics of this particularly tragic episode in the history of [[Dawn]] remain unaccounted for.
### Fall of the Pride
During her short reign [[Empress Brannan]] reputedly agreed to support the people of [[Dawn]] in finally achieving their long-held [[Ambition|ambition]] to conquer [[The Barrens]]. While there are no records of Empress Brennan making such a promise in any formal capacity, it certainly seems plausible that she did so. Unfortunately, when [[Emperor James]] succeeded her he persuaded [[The Senate|the Senate]] to fix the borders of [[The Empire|the Empire]], preventing any further "military adventurism". Many Dawnish saw this "reversal" as a betrayal and a deliberate snub by the Marcher [[Throne]]. Isolated in the [[Imperial Senate]] and the [[Military Council]] alike under the rule of a defensively-minded Marcher and his supporters, the generals and senators of Dawn nonetheless continued to agitate for expansion of the Empire's borders. They were not without supporters from other nations, who were likewise concerned about the decision to fix the borders, but only the people of Dawn were prepared to openly question James' policies.
Eventually, in 276YE, Dawnish generals conceived a plan to invade [[The Barrens|the Barrens]] without the explicit authorisation of [[The Military|the Military]] Council. The idea was to present the attack as a ''fait accompli'' in the expectation that once [[War|war]] with the barbarians was joined, the need to ensure victory and prevent a catastrophic defeat would force the Council to back the invasion. Even if this didn't happen, the Dawnish believed that those Highborn and Varushkan generals and senators who had publicly opposed [[Emperor James]] would be sufficiently sympathetic to the cause to commit their own armies to the campaign to take the Barrens. As the [[Senator|senator]] for [[Astolat]], Margueritte de Rondell, is quoted as saying "''The chance for [[Glory|glory]] [[Will|will]] call our allies to our side; fear of defeat [[Will|will]] still the tongues of those who have no [[Courage]]."
Knowing that the odds would be against them, they turned to their finest general, the relatively young Berena de Lyongate. Having spent years fighting [[Barbarian|barbarian]] orcs, she was well respected as the very example of a glorious Dawnish general - bold, clever, and possessed of a commanding presence. More importantly she was known to be utterly committed to the cause of conquering the Barrens. There is an apocryphal tale that some years earlier she had petitioned the [[Earl]] of House Vexille for a Test of Ardour, hoping to wed one of his bold knights. In response the [[Earl|earl]] had challenged the young general to conquer the Barrens for Dawn to prove she was worthy. Despite the apparent impossibility of the test, Berena had never wavered in her public commitment to achieve it and leapt at the [[Opportunity|opportunity]] to finally accomplish her dreams.
Unfortunately, the [[Druj]] barbarians were waiting for the Imperial forces. The orcs gave no sign that they were aware of the Dawnish armies, allowing them to push east and south from the relative safety of Dawnguard before springing their trap. Overextended, and unprepared for the sheer size of the forces brought to bear against them, the Dawnish armies were cut off - surrounded by savage foes. The Gryphon's Pride voluntarily led a desperate rearguard action to allow the [[Hounds of Glory]] and the [[Golden Sun]] to withdraw, but this ensured the near-total destruction of the heroic army, as well as the death of General Berenna and many of the leading lights of her [[Noble House|noble house]]. Some of those few of Berena's soldiers who managed to survive the battle - or their [[Children|children]] - would later form the core of the new army of the [[Eastern Sky]]. 
Those senators and generals who had supported the Dawnish push into the Barrens were quick to distance themselves from the disaster. The [[Senate]] publicly accepted the fiction that Berena bore most of the blame both for the attack and the defeat, but both General Atticus de Gauvain of the [[Hounds of Glory]] and General Sibylla Aurelius of the [[Golden Sun]] resigned their titles in disgrace. Far from challenging [[Emperor James]]' defensive strategy, the misadventure strengthened his position and became a cautionary tale for the next forty years.
### Recent History
A new army celebrating the [[Legacy|legacy]] of the Gryphon's Pride was discussed for many years. While that [[Legacy|legacy]] ended in tragedy, for several centuries the Pride represented glorious aspiration for many nobles and yeofolk. When the [[Imperial Senate]] finally commissioned a fourth Dawnish army in Spring 379YE, under the auspices of [[Senator]] Valentin of House Orzel, those [[Noble Houses|noble houses]] who still honoured the stories of the Gryphon's Pride quickly proposed it should renew that [[Legacy|legacy]]. House Lionsgate rallied several other minor houses including the Coyne's of Dawnguard and House Helios of [[Astolat]] to contribute resources and support to the new army on the understanding that the Gryphon's Pride would rise again.  
In Spring 380YE, the army was complete. The first general of the Gryphon's Pride was Soldier Akella, appointed following his victory in a tourney held by the senators of Dawn to choose the most glorious candidate for the position. Tragically, the new general served for only a few months, before being slain by [[Jotun]] warriors. Subsequent generals have been appointed by the Senators following the traditional method.
The new army was almost immediately deployed to support the conquest of the Barrens. After numerous victories against the indigenous Barrens orcs, they helped consolidate Imperial gains in the Carmine Fields and Murderdale before being called to withdraw as part of a short-lived peace treaty with the [[Druj]] that saw recent gains by the armies of Dawn surrendered to the eastern barbarians. Within a few short months, Dawnguard itself had fallen to the treachery of the [[Druj]], and the invasion of [[Semmerholm]] had begun. Along with the other three armies of Dawn, the Gryphon's Pride under General Garravaine de Rondell met the Druj advance, and drove them back into the Barrens.
The history of the Gryphon's Pride has been one of conquest, and when the generals of Dawn decided to take the battle to the Druj via the Golden Causeway, the Gryphon's Pride led the charge into [[Ossium]]. They fought bitterly through the campaign, including the vicious battle that led to the capture of the Tower of the Scorpion, and ultimately helped secure victory alongside the other armies of Dawn and their [[Thule]] and Varushkan allies.
Success in [[Ossium]] did not slake their thirst for conquest, and as 383YE drew to a close they were at the vanguard of the invasion of the [[Forest of Ulnak]].
## Traditions
As a new army, barely five years old, the Gryphon's Pride has few established traditions. Obviously the nobles from those houses who were once prominent supporters are keen to see old traditions return, but as yet they have failed to achieve universal support. There was some expectation that the generalship of the army might continue to be decided by a Grand Tourney (for all that the legal power rests with the Dawnish senators), this has proved not to be the case.
One tradition that House Lionsgate and the others are particularly keen to see resurrected is that surrounding the army's warbanner. The original standard of the Gryphon's Pride was created by a [[Weaver cabal|weaver cabal]] called the "Five Silver Needles". The standard was replaced each year; it became a point of pride for the weavers to create a beautiful and inspiring [[Magic|magic]] banner to be carried into battle by the soldiers of the courageous army. The banners were never reforged; once the [[Magic|magic]] was [[Gone|gone]], the standard was gifted by the general of the Gryphon's Pride to the a chosen champion. Often, the bequest was made posthumously; the flag often served as a burial shroud. According to legend, every general of the Gryphon's Pride until Berena was buried wrapped in one of these standards. When a new army took up the [[Legacy|legacy]] of the Gryphon's Pride, the Five Silver Needles agreed to once again provide new standards. So far only one standard has been provided - in 380YE. It is not clear why the banner was not replaced.
## Composition
While the army was raised in [[Semmerholm]], almost every [[Noble House|noble house]] in Dawn provided stout yeofolk, noble knights, and [[War|war]] witches to take up arms under the banners of Dawn. In particular, many knights descended from the soldiers of the first army rallied to the new gryphon banner, including almost the entire fighting force of House Lionsgate. While the Hounds of [[Glory]] continue the glorious [[Legacy|legacy]] of the original Pride, the new army has been built with the clear intent of conquering new [[Territory]] for the Empire.
Some of those who have joined the army in the last few years have adopted the symbol of a lion or an eagle, adding the device to their shield, apparel, or in some cases personal heraldry. This marks a resurgence of a tradition that harks back to the founding of the first army under the leadership of General Benedick. At that time it was commonly accepted that the new army would be best served by a close relationship with the Eternals of [[Summer]] - but no agreement on which [[Eternal|eternal]] should be regarded as the most valuable ally. Opinion slowly coalesced around two choices, [[Eleonaris]], the Queen of [[The Fields of Glory|the Fields of Glory]] or [[Cathan Canae]], the Queen of Ice and Darkness, but neither group was able to persuade Benedick to favour their respective Queen. Rather than choose between them, Benedick ordered each group to compete for the favour of their patron claiming that the army could still gain from boons from either [[Eternal|eternal]] provided individual members were not so foolish as to try and gain the patronage of both at the same time.
Following Benedick's decision, those in the army who sought to win boons from [[Eleonaris]] were referred to as the Lions of [[Glory]]. Those who sought [[Glory|glory]] in the name of [[Cathan Canae]] were called the [[Winter]] Eagles. With the return of the Gryphon's Pride, some modern supporters of the army are again wearing a symbol of their allegiance openly, in the hope of increasing their chances of catching the [[Eternal|eternal]]'s eye and thus winning their support for the Gryphon's Pride and for Dawn. The symbol might be discreet, a single motif embroidered on a surcoat, but it is often assumed that the more ostentatious the better - the eternals of Summer are many things but they are rarely subtle. 
Anyone can choose to mark themselves as a Lion of Glory or a Winter Eagle, but most of those who do so are [[War|war]] witches, martially inclined Enchanters, or questing knights. Witches and enchanters have more reason than most, even most Dawnish, to court the Summer eternals. Questing knights by contrast often seem to draw the interest of the inhabitants of the Summer [[Realm|realm]], regardless of their intentions. There exists something of a rivalry between the two [[Groups|groups]] with each competing to win boons and favours from their [[Eternal|eternal]] and thus prove that their patron is the better ally of Dawn. Of course in Dawn competition of this kind is not confined to the Gryphon's Pride, and some famous Lions and Eagles have continued their devotion long after they leave the army. But Benedicks' [[Wisdom|wisdom]] has been proven many times over the years - and not just in regard to the Gryphon's Pride - as the existence of the two rival groups has allowed the army to enjoy the favour of the two most jealous of eternals, occasionally at the same time.
## Army Quality : Conquering
The Gryphon's Pride focuses on capturing territory, driving the defenders of the land before them. Where their earlier incarnation was more concerned with matters of glory, today the Gryphon's Pride much more closely represents Dawnish ambitions in the Barrens - perhaps even in [[The Mallum|the Mallum]] as a whole. 
With the appropriate orders, the general of the Gryphon's Pride can instruct their soldiers to dominate key strategic objectives, claiming territory from any opposing force. This significantly increases the rate at which they claim regions, allowing the Empire to claim the entire territory more quickly. On the other hand, their emphasis on strategic control of objectives means that they are more likely to drive opposing forces away than destroy them - reducing the number of enemy [[Casualties|casualties]] during the campaign.
RecentElections|General_of_the_Gryphons_Pride|the title of General of the Gryphon's Pride