---
IgnoreLinking: False
Tags: ['Military-Council', 'Imperial-Army', 'Dawn']
Title: Hounds of Glory
aliases: ['Hounds_of_Glory']
draft: False
revision_date: 2023-08-10 17:07:56+00:00
revision_id: 104648
---

Army Page
### Overview
The [[Hounds of Glory]] very publicly strive to be the most glorious army in [[The Empire|the Empire]]; while few are so gauche as to say it openly that comes with the clear understanding of every Hound that that means they are the greatest army in [[The Empire|the Empire]]. The soldiers who [[Fight|fight]] beneath the banners of the Hounds of [[Glory]] have prided themselves on their unstoppable nature since the army was founded. The core of the army are battle-hardened knights arrayed in gleaming armour, their shields proudly displaying their house and personal sigils. They are supported by cadres of archers and witches, but what has long made them unique in [[The Empire|the Empire]] is the [[Courage]] and the [[Conviction|conviction]] that they draw from their surety of purpose and their commitment to [[Glory|glory]] above all other things. In battle they go where the [[Glory|glory]] is found, where the fighting is thickest, where legends are written.
Driven by the need to prove themselves themselves first among equals, and capitalising on the enthusiasm generated by the Dawnish victories, they have recruited knights from all over [[Dawn]] and challenged each to prove their [[Glory|glory]] in ever more demanding ways. Few can doubt their absolute commitment to their ideals, and their indomitable spirit makes them a formidable force on [[The Battlefield|the battlefield]] capable of truly remarkable feats
There is some [[Friendly rivalry|friendly rivalry]] between the [[Hounds of Glory]] and the [[Golden Sun]], and when their soldiers meet they often engage in contests of strength and martial might. 
The second Dawnish [[General|general]] leads the [[Hounds of Glory]], and is appointed (or re-appointed) at the [[Winter]] solstice each year.
### [[History]]
TBC
__TOC__
TBC
### Recent History
TBC
### Traditions
TBC
## Composition
TBC
## Army Quality : Indomitable [[Glory]]
Every member of the Hounds is committed to the [[Eternal|eternal]] quest for Glory and the need to prove that they are the greatest [[Heroes|heroes]] of [[The Empire|the Empire]]. Their unwavering [[Ambition]], [[Courage]], and [[Pride]] in the face of any danger means that they are prepared to take any chance to achieve glory. This allows their [[General|general]] to issue unique orders, taking enormous risks where necessary. Only the [[Hounds of Glory]] of [[Dawn]] possess the indomitable glory quality.
RecentElections|General_of_the_Hounds_of_Glory|the title of [[General]] of the [[Hounds of Glory]]