---
revision_id: 106165
revision_date: 2023-11-15T16:23:49Z
Tags:
- Senate
- Navarr
- Title
draft: false
Title: Advisor on the Vallorn
aliases:
- Advisor_on_the_Vallorn
---
## Overview
The [[Advisor on the Vallorn]] is an [[Imperial Title]] that may be held by any [[Navarr]]. The position was established by [[Create title of Advisor on the Vallorn|majority vote of the Senate]] in Spring 378YE. Prior to the Spring Equinox 384YE the Advisor had the power to commission [[Historical research]]. That power [[385YE Spring Equinox Senate sessions#Amend Historical Research|was removed]] following [[A long December#Hold On To These Moments|changes]] to how the [[Historical research#The Department of Historical Research|Department]] was organised.
The Advisor of the Vallorn has been the target of several attacks by agents of the [[Whisper Gallery]]. These [[Eternal|eternals]] appear to [[Bloody murder|object]] to the Advisor's role in directing the Empire's [[Historical research]] agenda. It remains to be seen whether the removal of the power of historical research will change the attitude of the sinister eternals.
## Responsibilities
The title is responsible for advising the Senate on matters relating to the [[Vallorn]], and protecting the Empire from the influence of this mysterious force or entity. As custodian of the Great Library of Hacynian,  if the commission were to be threatened in any way, it would be their responsibility of the Advisor to deal with those threats. Likewise, if any [[Opportunity]] relating to the library presented itself, they would make any decisions needed to take advantage of that.
## Powers
### Right of Address
The [[Advisor on the Vallorn]] has the right to [[Senate address|make an address]] to the Senate once per summit. This is intended to allow them to present important information for the Senators consideration. It is extremely impolite not to inform the Speaker's seat of your intention to use the Right of Address in advance of a session.
### Custodian of the Great Library
The Advisor has [[New Imperial titles#Custodian|custodianship]] of the [[#The Great Library of Hacynian|Great Library of Hacynian]] in [[Hercynia]]. They are not automatically assumed to be involved in the day to day operation of the library but are assumed to direct those efforts. The custodian cannot take any action that would require a legal power to authorize, such as [[Powers of the Imperial Senate#Abrogation|abrogating]] or [[Powers of the Imperial Senate#Concedence|ceding]] the commission (which are powers of the [[Imperial Senate]]).
## Appointment
The [[Advisor on the Vallorn]] is appointed by unanimous decision of the [[Navarr]] [[Senator|senators]]. If a unanimous decision cannot be reached, the title [[Appointments by the Senate#National Position|may be appointed]] by the [[Imperial Senate]] instead.
The title can be held by a Navarr citizen. The advisor has [[Imperial title#Term of office|tenure]], and serves until they die or step down. They can be [[Revocation|revoked]] by the [[Assembly#General Assembly|General Assembly]], the Navarr [[Assembly#The National Assemblies|National Assembly]], and by the [[Assembly#Assembly of the Nine|Assembly of the Nine]].
## Publication
Notes presented to the Imperial Senate by Neb, a previous Advisor on the Vallorn, have been [https://www.profounddecisions.co.uk/empire-wiki/File:Vallorn_Notes.pdf made available] to anyone who is interested. Nathair Autumngale has also made two reports available: one on the [[Heirs of the Terunael report|Heirs of the Terunael]], and the other on the [[Report on Terunael mineworkings|Terunael mineworkings]].
The Advisor on the Vallorn has also commissioned a number of [[Historical research]] projects. Details of these projects can be found [[Historical research#Recent Historical Research|here]].
RecentElections|Advisor_on_the_Vallorn
## The Great Library of Hacynian
The Great Library of Hacynian is a [[Folly]] constructed with small amounts of [[Weirwood]], [[White granite]], and [[Mithril]], and incorporates parts of an older Terunael structure. It was built at Mourning Hollow, an old battlefield on the south-eastern borders of [[Hercynia#Summersend|Summersend]], in [[Hercynia]]. 
The new building has been constructed as much as possible in the style of the old ruins, incorporating their original stone wherever possible. The structure is not especially large, but it is exceptionally beautiful, filled with shelves of scrolls and parchments written by students of Navarr history. It also incorporates a small shrine dedicated to the virtue of [[Wisdom]]. The shrine is lit by a single lightstone held by a wooden candlestick with swirling vines carved on its surface. The candlestick is another relic of the ancient temple. Carved by Jhessail Cedny, one of the founders of the nearby [[Steading]] of Foxden, the candlestick apparently also sat in the original library before it was destroyed by the Vard. 
In the central chamber sits a large weirwood table, the surface engraved with intricate swirling patterns and serving as a focus for [[Blood magic]] of the [[Navarr magical traditions#Vates|vates]] who visit the library to study. In the middle of the table rests a battered cauldron, the ''Bowl of [[Phaleron]]'', which once served as a [[:Category:Paraphernalia|covenstone]] for the magicians who tended the original library.
### History
Mourning Hollow was for a very long time [[Rubies on the Snow|haunted]] by the unquiet spirits of dead [[Varushka|Vard]] and [[Navarr]] warriors, apparently trapped there as the result of some forgotten curse or betrayal. Following a heroic expedition to the Hollow in Winter 379YE, there have been no further sightings of ghosts. The same expedition located the ruins of an old building, a so-called "Temple of Phaleron" dedicated to the [[Eternal]] of [[Phaleron|the same name]]. Built in a peculiar [[Regio]] that seemed to cycle alignment between Day and Night realms, there was evidence that the temple was once a large library built by the Terunael people of the city of Hacynian (from which the entire territory takes its name).
In Spring 381YE the [[Imperial Senate]] voted to [[Construct the Great Library of Hacynian|restore]] the library there. Work on the new structure was quickly completed, shortly before the Summer Solstice 381YE, and the first librarians and archaeologists arrived within the week. Not much is known about the history of the original structure, although the interest of Phaleron is obvious. There is some evidence that at least one other eternal, perhaps [[Sung]] or the [[Whisper Gallery]] have an interest in the area as well. The eternals' influence presumably cycles along with the peculiar regio.
### Terunael Lorekeeper
There was briefly an [[Imperial Title]] - Terunael Lorekeeper - created to oversee the library but that role was effectively abrogated when the Senate passed a motion to [[Amend powers of the Advisor on the Vallorn|amend]] the powers of the Advisor on the Vallorn granting them [[New Imperial titles#Custodian|custodianship]] of the library. The Lorekeeper was expected to take on a specific oath: "''I will protect the Library for as long as I can''." The oath was apparently that sworn by a pre-Imperial Navarri vate whose spirit was kept captive in Mourning Hollow by the grim magic of a [[Volodny]]. The tormented spirit was freed in 379YE when this oath was taken up by the heroic explorers visiting Mourning Hollow to deal with the dark curses found there.