---
IgnoreLinking: False
Tags: ['The-League', 'Title']
Title: Jade Custodian
aliases: ['Jade_Custodian']
draft: False
revision_date: 2022-06-02 17:03:05+00:00
revision_id: 91137
---

## Overview
The [[Jade Custodian]] is an [[Imperial Title]] that has custodianship of the Wellspring of Jade. This idyllic pool is set among light woodlands in eastern Foracci, at the source of one of a minor tributary of the Gancio. It was  announced by the then-[[Civilian Commissioner]] of [[The League]] in [[Winter]] 380YE. Work was completed shortly before the [[Spring]] Equinox 381YE. The title represents a [[Sinecure]], requiring minimal responsibility but offering a regular income of crystal mana.  Likewise, if any [[Opportunity]] relating to the wellspring presented itself, they would make any decisions needed to take advantage of it.
## Responsibilities
The [[Jade Custodian]] has no particular responsibilities; they simply receive a bounty of crystal mana from the Wellspring. If the Wellspring were to be threatened in any way, it would be the responsibility of the Jade Custodian to deal with those threats.
## Powers
### Bounty of Mana
The Jade Custodian gains custodianship of a [[Sinecure]]. The Jade Custodian receives an income of 12 crystal mana each season from the Wellspring of Jade.
==[[Appointment]]== 
The Jade Custodian is appointed by unanimous decision of the senators of [[The League]]. If a unanimous decision cannot be reached, the title may be appointed by the [[Imperial Senate]] instead. 
The title can be held by a citizen of the [[League]]. The Custodian has [[Tenure]], and serves until they die or step down. They can be revoked by the [[General]] [[Assembly]], the League [[National Assembly]], and by the [[Assembly of the Nine]].
## The Wellspring of Jade
The Wellspring is found at the source of a minor tributary of the Gancio, near the hamlet of Aversa in Foracci. The spring from which the tributary rises is part of an idyllic glade where natural flows of mana pool. The spring now rises into a beautiful circular pool, the green marble basin of which is inlaid with plates of [[Mithril|mithril]], and in whose depths crystals of mana form. It is a simple matter to pluck the formed crystals from the cool, fresh water. On clear days, sunlight causes motes of gold and jade light to dance across the surface of the pool; under the light of the moon, the waters ripple with a gentle silver glow.
During the construction it was discovered that the pooling mana had infused the idyllic spot with a natural [[Aura]], which has been enhanced by the careful construction work. Anyone who rests beside the pool during the [[Day|day]] finds it easy to relax, and their minds naturally turn to pondering philosophical questions or artistic endeavours. By [[Night|night]], travelers camping along the road between [[Sarvos]] and [[Casinea]] have reported vivid, inspirational dreams from which they awaken greatly refreshed. Merchants traveling between the eastern Empire and the City of Masks who know of the Wellspring and its relaxing properties have started favouring the route through Aversa, leading to an unexpected burst of [[Prosperity|prosperity]] for the sleepy hamlet. 
The Wellspring is truly beautiful - during the day, motes of sunlight form and dance across the surface of the waters, reflected from the [[Mithril|mithril]] plates set into the bottom of the pond. 
Far from the bustling streets of [[Sarvos]], the tiny hamlet of Aversa is better known for its strong red wines and cheeses than anything to do with the city. Situated deep within the woodlands of eastern Foracci along a lazy, meandering tributary of the river Gancio; Aversa has long been associated with the Corvinoscuri; a well-to-do [[Family|family]] of merchants who endorse the hamlet as as a retreat to escape the [[Burning|burning]] pressure of city-life.
In his youth a Corvinoscuri named Giacomo used to lie for hours near a brook, watching as the sun dappled through the leaves of the woodland canopy. In high [[Summer|summer]] he noticed that as the light struck the water the shadows that the leaves left used to leap across the water as if alive. Dancing into flitting shapes that chimed with the trickle of flowing water. The [[Enchantment|enchantment]] left him with a long-held appreciation for [[Magic|magic]], but his life took a bad turn and he lost himself to the wantonness of living as a [[Bravo|bravo]] in the city, thoughts of summer dreams long forgotten.
It took the death of a dear friend to shake him out of his abyss, but eventually he became a prominent businessman within the city, serving at various times at the proprietor of the Signori d’Argento Dueling School and Spry Spriggan Cisisbeo House; Signeur of the Compagnia di Rossi and Chairmen of Red Raven Holdings; Officer of the League Trading Company and [[Bourse]] Holder of the [[Damatian Cliffs]] and [[Brilliant Star]]. 
His interest in [[Magic|magic]] though was undiminished and throughout all this he bought texts and studied under private tutors to better understand the summer [[Realm|realm]] that reminded him of his youth so much. During his studies he became convinced that his childhood memories were not fantasy but that Aversa was near a powerful nexus of pure mana.
With the help of the [[Civilian Commissioner]] of the League, Lorenzo La Volpe (and fellow Officer of the League Trading Company) and also the newly appointed [[Senator]], Magdelena de Sarvos, Giacomo worked with the civil service to investigate the nexus. It was indeed found to be a source of natural mana, but that work needed to be done to collect and crystallise it as the waters just previously collected the fragments and washed them away down towards the river Gancio. Some of the architects involved in the project argued that the mana originated from the sun-dappled canopy, whilst others hypothesized that it was the waters themselves that were magical, but no matter, the mana was real.
The brook was expanded and turned into a large, round pool with pure Mithril laid into the basin, such that the light from the woodland canopy intensified and scattered dancing [[Will|will]]-o-the-wisps skating across the waters. Crystalline Mana began to form naturally in the depths of the pool and could be collected by wading knee deep inside. 
In time the Wellspring has turned into something of a tranquil landmark for travellers between Sarvos and [[Casinea]], a chance to escape the wearisome road. Along one side of the Wellspring a marble bench has been laid to rest tired feet and across the waters are three statues of a Stallion, Stag and Raven. By Giacomo's express instructions the following has been engraved in Old Asavean upon the base of the statues: “''Equus dormit / Tempus ea quae olim prava erant recta reddit / Cervus esurit / Veteribus oculis viae novae cerni possunt / Corvus spectat / Patientia nostra aeterna est''"
Original text contributed by Jim Watts
RecentElections|Jade_Custodian