---
IgnoreLinking: False
Tags: ['The-League', 'Title']
Title: Keeper of the Sapphire Stair
aliases: ['Keeper_of_the_Sapphire_Stair']
draft: False
revision_date: 2023-12-29 18:06:28+00:00
revision_id: 106687
---

## Overview
The ''[[Keeper of the Sapphire Stair]]'' is an [[Imperial Title]] awared to a [[League]] citizen. It is a National position, appointed by unanimous decision of [[The League|the League]] senators.
Associated with the Sapphire Stair in [[Tassato]], the keeper is paid a portion of each toll paid for use of [[The Lock|the lock]]. The majority of the monies raised goes to the maintenance and operation of the marvellous locks, but the keeper is assigned enough to ensure a comfortable lifestyle. Perhaps more importantly, this [[Sinecure]] also brings with it a certain amount of influence in the politics of the city itself due to the influence it grants the holder over trade along the Vassa.  As such, control of the [[Sinecure|sinecure]] is hotly contested by [[Guilds|guilds]] on both sides of the river and on the irregular occasions when the sinecure must be re-appointed, competition to influence [[The League|the League]] senators is extremely fierce.
The Keeper is ''almost always'' from [[Tassato]]. While there have been incidents where League citizens from other cities have been appointed to the position they have rarely found their [[Tenure|tenure]] to be very satisfying. They either moved to Tassato and became involved in the politics of the city, or they found themselves shunned, villified, harassed and on one very unfortunate occasion during the reign of [[Empress Brannan]], murdered for their temerity in involving themselves directly in a Tassatan matter.
The previous [[Keeper of the Sapphire Stair]] was Rebeca Porteiro di Tassato, a [[Naga]] member of the Gilt Moth ''camorra'' - a wealthy [[Guild]] from northern Madeiras known for, among other things, trade in fine cloth, dark ale and [[Navarr]] goods. Exiled from the city proper nearly two centuries ago following some scandal or other, the [[Guild|guild]] stays neutral in political affairs. Rebeca herself is known to be a rake, a [[Bravo]], and a hellraiser, and has a reputation for daring amorous adventures and remarkable skill with the sword. Rumour suggests that she was appointed to the position in 366YE following the successful seduction of all three League senators.
During [[Winter]] 379YE, Rebecca Porteiro di Tassato suffered a fatal injury, and the title passed to Domitila Sanguineo Rezia di Tassato (after some unfortunate misunderstandings around which of the two beautiful Rezia sisters had been appointed to the position). Following this new [[Appointment|appointment]] there has been an increase in argument and political maneuvering between those associated with the 'Stair - including some [[Calls|calls]] for increased political representation of the lockworkers' guilds.
After the [[Spring]] Equinox 385YE, a [[Jotun]] champion ''Eisa Winterborn'' led a force into Tassato to raid Cevia, and to destroy the Sapphire Stair. The locks were all but ruined in the raid. The Keeper no longer receives tolls from merchants using the locks, and [[Will|will]] not receive any until  the locks are replaced. Doing so is ''relatively'' straightforward; the project is a Sinecure requiring 10 wains each of [[White granite|white granite]], [[Weirwood|weirwood]], and [[Mithril|mithril]], 60 crowns in labour, and taking three months to complete. 
The Red Rock was also damaged, but can be dealt with by the Keeper as part of their normal duties; even though the stairs are [[Gone|gone]], they do not automatically lose their title and would resume custodianship if the locks were replaced.
[[Shallows and miseries|Shallows_and_miseries]]#Meanwhile_in_Tassato
## Responsibilities
The title holder is expected to ensure that the Sapphire Stair remains open and in a state of good repair. The actual job of operating the lock falls to civil servants and local labourers, mostly domiciled in the fortified village of Cevia. While the title comes with a comfortable house on the banks of the Vassa, few Keepers actually spend much time there preferring the entertainments of the city of Tassato.
## Powers
### Comfortable Income
As a sinecure, the Keeper of the Sapphire Stair provided an income drawn from the tolls paid by merchants using the lock. With the locks ruined, this income is no longer forthcoming.
The holder of the sinecure receives 20 Crowns in income each season.
### The Red Rock
The Keeper of the Sapphire stair is responsible for the mural that covers the Red Rock - a naturally occurring flat area of stone that rests in the hills above the lock and is visible to travellers passing along the river. They may change the mural if they wish - provided they are prepared to pay the money to employ a team of artists. Altering or replacing the Red Rock Mural costs 5 Thrones.
To use this power, the Keeper should ensure they have 5 Thrones in their inventory, and e-mail [mailto:plot@profounddecisions.co.uk plot] with the description of their new mural between [[Events|events]]. The text should be no more than 200 words, and may be edited before being published on [[The wiki|the wiki]].
==[[Appointment]]== 
The Keeper of the Sapphire Stair is appointed by unanimous decision of the senators of The League. If a unanimous decision cannot be reached, the title may be appointed by the [[Imperial Senate]] instead. 
The title can be held by a citizen of the League. The Keeper has Tenure, and serves until they die or step down. They can be revoked by the [[General]] [[Assembly]], the League [[National Assembly]], and by the [[Assembly of the Nine]].
## The Red Rock Mural
The ''Red Rock'' is a large, flat naturally occurring rock surface that stands above the Sapphire Stair and is visible to boats traveling up or down the river. Following an escalating "[[War|war]] of pictures" between several [[Bands|bands]] of [[Bravos|bravos]] in Winter 382YE, Domitila Sanguineo Rezia di Tassato of the Gilded Horn Carta stepped in to take charge of the rock and its images. The beautiful mural of Anabella di Regario and [[Aldones di Sarvos]] toasting one another lasted until the [[Jotun]] attack in 385YE. Now the rock has been defaced ; it is gouged and daubed with white and red paint, and in place of the inspirational art, there is a crude depiction of a walrus and the [[Rune]] of Victory.
Annabella di Regario and Aldones di [[Sarvos]] are on either side of the mural, toasting one another with a single cup held between them. There are the [[Runes|runes]] for [[Prosperity]] and [[Ambition]] on a ribbon attached to [[The Cup|the cup]]. Both are wearing fashionable League clothing in red and gold. Annabella has red hair, large horns, blue eyes, pale skin, and is curvy. Aldones is instantly recognisable - black skinned, dark haired, with brooding eyes. Beneath their arms are depicted all the famous buildings in Tassato - extolling the splendours of the city to visitors or reminding those traveling south of the riches they leave behind.Beneath the buildings is a [[Banner|banner]] that says, "Our [[Ambition|ambition]] shall [[Challenge|challenge]] the stars and shame the sun." On either end of the banner is a gilded) cornucopia horn.The [[Background|background]] of the mural is a [[Mosaic|mosaic]] that, it is said, depicts a crude penis when looked at from the right angle, with the phrase  "Mestra is Best-ra" just visible above it. It is not clear if this crude image is actually present, nor whether it has been intentionally placed in the image or is the result of an accident. The curious are encouraged to come and see for themselves.
Needless to say, the mural has been denounced as artistically bankrupt in Regario, and roundly applauded as a work of genius in Mestra. -->
RecentElections|Keeper_of_the_Sapphire_Stair