---
revision_id: 105401
revision_date: 2023-09-03T22:09:32Z
Tags:
- Conclave
- Title
draft: false
Title: Master of the Koboldi
aliases:
- Master_of_the_Koboldi
---
## Overview
The [[Master of the Koboldi]] is an [[Imperial Title]] appointed by [[Declaration]] of [[Candidacy]] in the [[Imperial Conclave]]. The position was created to oversee the [[#College of Engineering|College of Engineering]] in [[Temeschwar]], [[Construct College of Engineering and Architecture|created]] in [[Mean what you say#King Adamant and the Academy of Stone|conjunction]] with the [[Eternal]] [[Adamant]]. The college took a little over a year to build, being completed shortly before the Winter Solstice 383YE. Part of the delay was due to the need to [[Amend Master of the Koboldi|amend]] the powers of the Master to bring them into line with Adamant's initial proposal. At its completion, control of the structure was [[Powers of the Imperial Senate#Concedence|ceded]] to the eternal, who dispatched some of his servants to help staff the college.
During the Autumn Equinox 384YE, an [[384YE Autumn Equinox Senate sessions#Clarify Master of the Koboldi|administrative motion]] was raised by the Civil Service to determine if the [[Imperial Senate]] wished the [[Master of the Koboldi]] to be able upgrade/improve, and repair existing structures as well as commissioning new one. The [[Senator|senators]] confirmed that this was indeed their intention. 
==Responsibilities== 
The [[Master of the Koboldi]] is Adamant's representative to the Empire, and vice versa. They do not oversee the College of Engineering as such - the building was ceded to the control of the eternal after all - but they have the ability to call on Adamant's servants to undertake construction work anywhere in the Empire. If the College were threatened, however, they would be responsible for dealing with those threats.
## Powers
### Commission stone construction
Once per summit, the Master of the Koboldi can [[Commission]] a single [[Folly]], [[Fortification]], [[Ministry]], [[Great work]], [[Sinecure]], [[Runeforge]], or [[College of Magic]] anywhere in the Empire. The commission must use at least 30 wains of [[White granite]] as part of its costs. This project does ''not'' count against the limited number of commissions the Senate can begin each season - all the work of planning and construction is undertaken by the ''koboldi''. The commission follows all the normal rules, although in this case the labour cost of the building represents gifts of treasure for the heralds and their master rather than wages.
As well as commissioning a new structure, the Master of the Koboldi may also upgrade, improve, and repair existing structures (provided they are of a type the Master is allowed to create).
To use this power the Master must make a [[Senate announcement]], ideally containing all the [[Motion wording#Necessary Details|necessary details]] of the commission. These should include the nature of the commission, the territory and region where it will be built, and the method of appointment of any associated title.
While a standard commission will proceed without any problems, using this power in conjunction with an [[Opportunity]] may lead to unexpected complications depending on its nature. The Civil Service may be able to provide guidance where this is the case. (OOC Note: For opportunities presented in Winds of Fortune, an e-mail to [mailto:plot@profounddecisions.co.uk plot@profounddecisions.co.uk] should be able to confirm if there will be any problems with the Master using the koboldi to fulfil it.)
### Regalia
Adamant has pledged to provide two [[Magic Items]] as regalia for the Master of the Koboldi: a ''wreath of gold'' and a ''bracelet of gemstones''. Adamant has pledged to re-empower the [[:Category:Foci|foci]] every year during the Winter Solstice, as long as he enjoys the [[Amity and enmity|amity]] of the [[Imperial Conclave]]. The powers of the foci have not been made public knowledge.
### Official Residence
The Master of the Koboldi has a suite of rooms at the [[#College of Architecture|College of Architecture]] in [[Temeschwar]], and while in residence all their needs are taken care of by the ''koboldi''. They are welcome to roleplay that they dine on the finest food and drink that [[The League]] has to offer.
RecentElections|Master_of_the_Koboldi
## Appointment
The appointment, replacement, or removal of the Master is made by the [[Declaration#Declaration of Candidacy|declaration of candidacy]] as part of a [[Conclave session]]. Any Imperial citizen may hold the title. They serve until they are replaced by another magician using the Declaration of Candidacy. As a title in the Conclave, they cannot be [[Revocation|revoked]].
## College of Engineering
Built in the foothills of [[Temeschwar#Locul|Locul]] in [[Temeschwar]], not far from the great mine of Descent, the College of Engineering is unsurprisingly an impressive stone structure. The buildings themselves are a curious fusion of [[The League|League]] architecture and the influence of the Summer realm. The buildings tower to great height, but are designed to harmonize with each other and the surrounding terrain, decorated with subtle and refined traceries. The interior houses many realistic sculptures in a variety of styles honouring both famous Imperial architects - such as Lorenzo “La Volpe” Macelliao von Temeschwar, and the commissioning [[Senator]] Cesare Sanguineo Rezia Di Tassato - and inhabitants of Adamant's subterranean realm. Visitors often find it incongruous to encounter a statue of the [[Paragons and Exemplars|exemplar]] [[Atuman]] on one side of a hall, mirrored by an equally beautiful statue of a great lizard-headed robed figure, both of them equipped with scrolls and mason's tools. 
Large stained glass windows fill the interiors with natural light. The most impressive of which is probably found in the great hall where a massive circular window of multicoloured glass depicting seven dragons encircling a great flame with the words "With Ambition, we Build" beneath. At night the halls are illuminated with [[Technology#Lightstones|Lightstones]] from [[Urizen]] and [[Wintermark]], and shimmering crystals quarried in the Summer Realm. The main library is particularly imposing, with two great towers that echo those of [[Sarvos#Diora University|Diora University]] in [[Sarvos]] - itself home to a renowned school of architecture - but decorated with sculptures depicting a number of great wingless lizards with many legs - creatures of the Summer realm known as deepwyrms.
Nobody visiting the College is left in any doubt that it is built, at least in part, to the glory of the [[Adamant|King Beneath The Peak]] - indeed the road that wends down the hills toward the city proper is flanked by two massive dragon statues of white stone, depicting at least one of the images of the eternal themselves. Even if one were to ignore the extensive dragon and mountain imagery, two-thirds of the staff at the College are creatures of the Summer realm - specifically the underground demesne of the ''Throne of Adamant''. Labour and menial tasks are undertaken by the short-and-stocky ''koboldi'' but there are several heralds of Adamant in residence who are both larger and more unique in their appearance. They include the architect Lemanan whose brutish, ogrish physique belies a keen wit and intense enthusiasm for excavation and mining; the sinuous Be'hei'ar, a serpentine sculptress beyond compare; and the grey-stone-skinned Drageer who teaches draftsmanship and geometric principles to the students here.
Security likewise is a split between the mundane and the magical - a small company of mercenary soldiers of the League, well paid in gems and precious metals on the one hand; and two livings stone statues of dragon-headed warriors that spend most of their time standing motionless in the forecourt before the library ready to spring into life should anything threaten the College or its inhabitants.
## Further Reading
* [[Commission]] details all the rules and requirements for beginning a construction project.
* [[Senate announcement]] explains how the Master of the Koboldi uses their ability to commission stone structures.
* [[Mean what you say#King Adamant and the Academy of Stone|Mean what you say]] is the Summer 382YE Wind of Fortune where the college was first proposed
* [[Construct College of Engineering and Architecture]] is the [[Senate motion]] that set the project in motion
* [[Stone and stone]] is the Winter 383YE wind of fortune that includes a number of [[Opportunity|opportunities]] for the Master to commission unique construction