---
IgnoreLinking: False
Title: Overseer of the Gloaming Road
aliases: ['Overseer_of_the_Gloaming_Road']
draft: False
revision_date: 2023-09-06 09:23:04+00:00
revision_id: 105565
tags: ['Bourse', 'Foreign-Nations', 'Title']
---

## Overview
The [[Gloaming Road]] is a trade route that crosses the dusty Lasambrian hills between [[Faraden]] and [[Segura]]. Once just another nameless path through the arid wilderness, its prominence dramatically increased in recent years. In [[Autumn]] 380YE a pernicious blight laid waste to the iridescent butterfly population of the forests of northern [[Faraden]]. Merchants of that nation then brokered a trade deal with the [[Freeborn]], exchanging precious [[Mithril|mithril]] for vast amounts of [[Iridescent gloaming|Iridescent Gloaming]] from [[The Empire|the Empire]]. The Gloaming Road bustled with caravans hauling valuable goods, and [[Faraden]] requested an overseer be appointed from among the Freeborn to manage the exchange. 
When it was first created the position of [[Overseer of the Gloaming Road|overseer of the Gloaming Road]] was ''not'' an [[Imperial Title]]; rather it represented a campaign [[Resource|resource]] appointed by the [[Ambassador to Faraden]] and their opposite number ''Lady Saretta of the Red Moon''. During the Autumn Equinox 384YE, following the wishes of the newly appointed Liege of the Five Winds, [[Overseer of the Gloaming Road]] became an [[Imperial Title]], appointed by [[Auction of the Seats]]. This removed the current Overseer, and lead to the first auction taking place at the [[Winter]] Solstice and therafter following the usual pattern of Autumn elections alongside the other [[Mithril]] producing seats and ministries.
## Responsibilities
The change to [[Imperial Title|Imperial title]] has not changed the responsibilities of the Overseer. They are expected to ensure the continued exchange of [[Iridescent gloaming|iridescent gloaming]] with [[Faraden]]. Numerous minor, independent Imperial and [[Faraden]] merchants are taking advantage of the thriving trade route to do [[Business|business]], but it falls to the overseer to handle the bulk of the trade taking place - and to ensure that it continues unabated. This is further complicated by the presence of the [[Jotun]] in the Lasambrian hills - while there is an agreement to allow Faraden [[Traders|traders]] to pass unmolested, no such arrangement exists for Imperial merchants. As a consequence, Imperial gloaming [[Traders|traders]] congregate at the Kabalai Palace and deal with the weary Faraden when they arrive in [[Segura]].
Shortly before the Autumn Equinox 385YE, news reached [[Anvil]] of the renegotiation of the treaty between the Faraden and the [[Jotun]] allowing merchants to pass through the Lasambrian Hills. The price to purchase [[Mithril|mithril]] has increased by a further fifth over what it was in previous seasons; the Faraden are now having to pay through the nose to bring any caravans through the Lasambrian hills. 
## Powers
### [[Ministry]]
Total [[Iridescent gloaming|iridescent gloaming]] providedWains of [[Mithril|mithril]] received
60 iridescent gloaming2 wains of [[Mithril|mithril]]
138 iridescent gloaming4 wains of mithril
220 iridescent gloaming6 wains of mithril
The overseer can provide large stocks of [[Iridescent gloaming|iridescent gloaming]] to the merchants of Faraden, in return for which they receive a significant amount of mithril. This functions in the same manner as a traditional [[Ministry]]. The amount of mithril received is reflected by the total amount of iridescent gloaming traded. The overseer trades the gloaming during [[Downtime|downtime]] from their character page. Iridescent gloaming is removed from, and mithril is placed into, the character's inventory when the [[Downtime|downtime]] is processed.
The production of the [[Ministry|ministry]] is entirely dependant on Faraden's ongoing need for iridescent gloaming from outside its borders, and the continued provision of the magical material by [[The Empire|the Empire]]. Were the overseer unable or unwilling to put up significant amounts of gloaming to trade, it is likely that Faraden would seek a new supplier elsewhere.
Following the imposition of [[Sanctions|sanctions]] on trade with Faraden during the Winter Solstice 382YE, the [[Cost|cost]] to purchase mithril via the [[Ministry|ministry]] increased by roughly a fifth. During the Autumn Equinox 384YE the [[Imperial Senate]] ratified a treaty with the Faraden that saw the Faraden returned to a mercantilist trading standards.
Following the [[Spring]] Equinox 383YE, [[Sadogua]] provided the Faraden with a number of blight resistant grubs, putting an end to the blight. The amount of mithril available for trade was reduced as the demand for gloaming from outside the borders of Faraden returned to what it was before the blight struck.
## Selection
As with the other Mithril [[Bourse]] seats, the holder of the title is determined during the Autumn Equinox. As an Imperial seat, any Imperial citizen may participate in the auction and hold the title.
The [[Overseer of the Gloaming Road]] title is retained for a year, or until the citizen holding the seat dies, or steps down. As a title appointed through [[The Bourse|the Bourse]] they cannot be revoked by the [[Imperial Synod]].
Regarding the Gloaming Road
This title has some additional restrictions. The mithril it produces is provided by Faraden merchants eager to acquire Imperial iridescent gloaming. In the event relations with Faraden collapse, or the Gloaming Road were to be closed, the title would still exist but would not be able to purchase mithril.
Anchor|History
## The Gloaming Road
During 380YE, a disease crept into Faraden from farther lands and swept through the iridescent butterfly populations therein. The results were disastrous for the carefully-cultivated forests where Faraden silk-harvesters worked, shattering the production of iridescent gloaming over a few short months. Desperate for gloaming, the Court of the Five Winds authorised merchants from several key families to approach [[The Brass Coast|the Brass Coast]] and discuss the large-scale trade of the material in return for mithril. An initial exchange during the Autumn Equinox of 380YE was successful, and an ongoing trade agreement between the two nations was formalised during the following Winter Solstice. ''Antonio i Carno i [[Guerra]]'' was appointed in Winter 380YE to serve as the first [[Overseer of the Gloaming Road|overseer of the Gloaming Road]]
Brightly coloured fabrics are vital to Faraden culture, and iridescent gloaming is key to their production. While the effects of the gloaming blight continued, the nation's hunger for iridescent gloaming remained strong. The situation changed with the ratification of the [[Liberty Pact]] which placed additional [[Tariffs]] on Faraden mithril - but even that was nothing to the damage done to the profitability of the trade route when the [[Imperial Conclave]] effectively ended the gloaming blight in [[Summer]] 383YE.
In Autumn 384YE, following the ascension of ''Tchinua Ganbatar'' to the Seat of Five Winds, the Gloaming Road was made an [[Imperial Title]] as part of the same treaty that saw trade [[Sanctions|sanctions]] for the Faraden lifted. This also made the [[Imperial Senate]] responsible for maintaining roads and bridges that form the western part of the route, incurring a [[Cost|cost]] to the [[Imperial treasury|Imperial Treasury]] of 5 thrones each season.
RecentElections|Overseer_of_the_Gloaming_Road
Responsibilities Expectation