---
revision_id: 90136
revision_date: 2022-05-12T17:19:45Z
Tags:
- Imperial-Orcs
- Title
draft: false
Title: Pitmaster
---
## Overview
The [[Pitmaster]] is an [[Imperial Title]] awarded to an [[Imperial Orcs|Imperial Orc]] citizen. It is a national position appointed by majority vote of the Imperial Orc senators. The position is a [[Sinecure]], requiring minimal responsibility but offering a regular income drawn from the fees generated by the Skarsind College of Pit Fighting.
## Responsibilities
As a sinecure, the [[Pitmaster]] has few responsibilities. The running and maintenance of the college's facilities is left to trained pit fighters and shamans. If the Skarsind College of Pit Fighting were threatened, it would be the responsibility of the [[Pitmaster]] to deal with that threat
## Powers
As a sinecure, the Pitmaster has no legal powers, but they receive an income from the college's fees to the sum of 216 rings a season.
## Appointment
The title is selected by unanimous decision of the [[Imperial Orcs]] [[Senator|senators]]. If a unanimous decision cannot be reached, the title [[Appointments by the Senate#National Position|may be appointed]] by the [[Imperial Senate]] instead.
The title can be held by any Imperial Orc citizen. The Pitmaster has [[Tenure]], and serves until they die or step down. They can be [[Revocation|revoked]] by the [[Assembly#General Assembly|General Assembly]], the Imperial Orc [[Assembly#The National Assemblies|National Assembly]], and by the [[Assembly#Assembly of the Nine|Assembly of the Nine]].
## Skarsind College of Pit Fighting
The college is made up of a small number of sturdy buildings built near the settlement of [[Skarsind#Skogei Glens|Skogei]]. The largest structure by far is the arena, constructed from stone and reinforced with [[White granite]]. There are murals painted on the walls of the arena depicting a number of deceased pit fighters.
Beneath the pit of the arena is 'The Gibbet' where fighters prepare for their battles, the name stuck after legionnaires from the two [[Imperial Orcs military concerns#Imperial Armies|armies]] projected their gallows humour onto the building. Blood often seeps down from the pit above and occasionally spatters the fighters before a fight in the pit.
Responsibilities Expectation
RecentElections|Pitmaster