---
IgnoreLinking: False
Tags: ['Bourse', 'Title']
Title: Seer of the Spiral Sword
aliases: ['Seer_of_the_Spiral_Sword']
draft: False
revision_date: 2020-08-16 10:27:43+00:00
revision_id: 81167
---

## Overview
The [[Seer]] of the Sword is an [[Imperial Title]] appointed through [[The Bourse|the bourse]]. It grants the ability to direct research at the [[Runeforge]] in [[Redoubt]], located in north-west Limus on the road between Cargo and the Highborn town of Hedra in [[Necropolis]].
The college allows the creation of new and unique [[Magic Items]], as well as offering the possibility of sharing that knowledge with Imperial artisans.
## Responsibilities
The [[Seer]] oversees the research agenda of the [[Runeforge|runeforge]], and is responsible for crafting the unique [[Magic|magic]] items the structure produces. In the event the [[Runeforge|runeforge]] is threatened, the [[Seer]] is responsible for addressing such threats. Likewise, if an [[Opportunity]] related to the [[Runeforge|runeforge]] arises, the [[Seer]] is responsible for determining how to exploit such an [[Opportunity|opportunity]].
## Powers
Unique items
A unique item is one that does not already exist in the [[Magic|magic]] item lists. It is likely that such an item [[Will|will]] need to be bonded, and [[Will|will]] be a weapon, armour, talisman or group [[Magic|magic]] item. [[Magic Items|Magic items]] tend to do one thing, rather than multiple types of things, and creating an item that does more than one thing is increasingly more expensive that creating an item that does one thing well. Not every ability of a [[Magic|magic]] item is equally appropriate to every kind of item, and more powerful items may prove to be prohibitively expensive in terms of time or [[Materials|materials]] required - or flat out impossible. It is [[Worth|worth]] talking to Profound Decisions about the kind of item you wish to create so that we can work together to come up with something possible that is as close as we can get to your original idea.
### Unique Crafting
The [[Runeforge|runeforge]] can be used to create a single copy of a unique [[Magic|magic]] item. It takes six months to research a new item, which can require up to 40 [[Materials|materials]] to create. If the finished item requires more than 40 [[Materials|materials]], it requires one extra season of work for every 20 extra [[Materials|materials]]. When the research is completed, the [[Seer]] is presented with a standard magic item that, as with all such items, [[Will|will]] last for one year. 
At this time, the [[Seer of the Spiral Sword]] may choose to learn the ability to make that item for the usual experience point costs. However, the character [[Will|will]] be unable to teach anyone else how to make the item - the ability to do so [[Will|will]] remain theirs alone.
### Forge Schema
Instead of constructing a single copy of a magic item, the Seer may choose to make a schema. It takes six months to research a schema, which can require up to 40 [[Materials|materials]] to create. If the finished item requires more than 40 materials, it requires one extra season of work for every 20 extra materials. Creating a schema requires the Seer of the [[Spiral]] Sword to provide one ring of [[Ilium]] per ingot or measure of material required to make the item (to a minimum of 10 rings). A schema is permanent unless destroyed with [[Words of Ending]].
A schema is a "pattern" for the new crafted item that anyone can use to learn the method of creating the item. It can also be expended with the [[Assistance|assistance]] of the [[Imperial Senate]] to spread the knowledge of how to make the new item throughout [[The Empire|the Empire]].
### Using the Forge
The runeforge is used during [[Downtime|downtime]]. The [[Seer of the Spiral Sword]] should [[Contact Profound Decisions|contact Profound Decisions]] by e-mail (at empire.rules@profounddecisions.co.uk) prior to the next event with the details of the item they wish to try and create. If they want to make a schema, they will need the appropriate number of rings of [[Ilium|ilium]] in their inventory. Profound Decisions will let the player know before the next event the number and type of materials required to make the new item.
The Seer of the [[Spiral]] Sword is an [[Imperial Title|Imperial title]] and thus may appoint a [[Proxy]]. It is important to note however that a [[Proxy|proxy]] cannot wield powers related to [[Downtime|downtime]]; they cannot direct the runeforge nor learn how to create a unique magic item. Only the actual character with the title of [[Seer of the Spiral Sword]] is legally allowed to use the runeforge to make or master new [[Magic Items|magic items]].
## [[Appointment]]
The title is an Imperial position appointed through the [[Bourse]] during the [[Spring]] Equinox by open auction. As with any Imperial position, any Imperial citizen may participate in the auction and hold the seat.
Custodianship of the runeforge is retained for a year, or until the citizen holding the seat dies, or steps down. An [[Imperial Bourse]] seat cannot be revoked by the [[Imperial Synod]].
RecentElections|Seer_of_the_Spiral_Sword
## The [[Spiral]] Sword
The runeforge itself stands on the road between Cargo in [[Redoubt]] and Hedra in [[Necropolis]]. It is a circular building of [[White granite|white granite]] and [[Weirwood|weirwood]], with extensive metal fittings of fine [[Mithril|mithril]]. There is a small hostelry attached, with apartments for use by the [[Seer of the Spiral Sword]] and by the apprentices and assistant artisans who help staff the runeforge. It is built in an Urizeni style, in the shape of a six-sided tower, the top of which is decorated with six symbols representing the [[Realms|realms]] of magic. 
Originally designed and built by the Asavean [[Architect]], Almodin Oktístis, and included a number of statues and decorations referencing the false gods of the Asavean religion. Following the Spring Equinox 383YE, the runeforge was subject to an attack by a mob of angry citizens riled up by the [[Imperial Synod]]. The statues and mosaics were torn out, smashed, and the remains repurposed to create a small ornamental rock garden a short distance from the forge proper. Fortunately, this coincided with a [[Senate]] plan to redesign the works of Almodin Oktístis; while the [[Rune|rune]] forge experienced a short hiatus it was soon restored to full functionality. These [[Events|events]] are covered in more detail here.
An extensive library of texts stands in a third building, a fine marble stucture of graceful columns with a pleasent [[Mosaic|mosaic]] floor depicting the [[Night|night]] sky of the [[Winter]] solstice in [[Tempest jade|tempest jade]] and vibrant coloured tiles that highlight the full moon and [[Constellations|constellations]]. 
There are only two entrances of the runeforge proper; each is cunningly positioned so as to be aligned with the rising and [[The setting|the setting]] sun. On the first [[Day|day]] of Midsummer, the sun shines directly through the great arched portals into the central chamber. Each door is flanked by two stone figures in [[Urizen]] robes. On the East door are two [[Merrow|merrow]]: one holding fire in cupped hands, the other tools of measurement. To the West stand more martial statues – a maned [[Changeling|changeling]] man carrying a spear, and a human woman holding an intricately carved sword with the symbol of the labyrinth on the hilt, held out in offering. 
The centrepiece of the runeforge is a solid stone of [[White granite|white granite]] inlaid with a [[Mithril|mithril]] design depicting the [[Constellation|constellation]] of [[The Phoenix|the Phoenix]]. The forgestone stands beneath a crystalline dome decorated with the twenty-seven [[Runes|runes]]. Each rune is depicted as borne by a carved, stylised figure. In each [[Cardinal|cardinal]] direction the builders of the forge are honoured - two [[Urizen]] cambions, a Marcher, and a Highborn holding aloft [[Pallas]], [[Lann]], [[Xun]] and [[Feresh]] respectively. Subtle details indicate notable historical and modern figures, including two orcs – one meditating on [[Aesh]], the other holding [[Naeve]] like a sword. During the day, natural light streams in through the dome while at night the central hall is lit by dozens of cunningly positioned lightstones.
Around the circumfrence of [[The Chamber|the chamber]] are state-of-the-art crafting tools from all major disciplines, each watched over by intricately sculpted stone images of idealised crafters of the appropriate kind.