---
IgnoreLinking: False
Title: Imperial Synod
aliases: ['Imperial_Synod']
draft: False
revision_date: 2023-07-11 07:49:05+00:00
revision_id: 103049
tags: ['Religion']
---

Reward the Virtuous; Punish the Wicked
## Overview
The [[Imperial Synod]] exists to safeguard the soul of [[The Empire|the Empire]], protecting it from dangers and corrupting influences, whilst nurturing and promoting virtue wherever it flourishes. It provides a balance on the power of the [[Imperial Senate]] and [[The Throne]] and has the power to reward the virtuous and punish the wicked. It also controls the supply of true [[Liao|liao]] which grants access to past life visions.
The Secretary [[General]] of the Civil Service has written a short pamphlet outlining how to participate in [[The Synod|the Synod]], which can be found [https://www.profounddecisions.co.uk/mediawiki-public/images/0/0f/Synod_Participation_Guide.pdf here]. Copies of this pamphlet are also available in the Hub during [[Events|events]].
## Role within [[The Empire|the Empire]]
The [[Synod]] is charged with overseeing the spiritual well-being of [[The Empire|the Empire]] - ensuring the virtue of its citizens and in particular those who lead them. Its remit includes being aware of all the official [[Business|business]] of [[The Empire|the Empire]]. Members of the Synod are permitted to sit in while any Imperial meetings are being convened, although they are not automatically able to pry into the private affairs of citizens. The purpose is to ensure that virtue is enshrined in all the most important decisions taken by Imperial citizens.
To allow the Synod to perform its role, it may act to [[Veto]] motions passed by [[The Senate|the Senate]] - or to revoke individuals who hold important positions in the [[Senate]] or the [[Military Council]]. The Synod's most feared punishment is to excommunicate a citizen, allowing the ceremonial rite of [[Excommunication|excommunication]] to be performed on the accused and stripping them of their right to hold any [[Imperial Title|Imperial title]].
The Synod is also granted the power to dispense the majority of the [[True liao|true liao]] produced by [[The Empire|the Empire]] each season as well as being charged with maintaining Imperial doctrine, providing guidance to the faithful through rulings on metaphysical and spiritual issues.
## [[History]]
The creation of the [[Imperial Synod]] was a crucial part of the formation of the Empire. While [[The Empress|the Empress]] and many of her Highborn supporters favoured a theocratic model of government for the Empire, they were unable to convince everyone of the [[Wisdom|wisdom]] of this approach. The compromise was to vest legal power in the Senate - but to create the Synod to watch over the Senate and ensure it remained a virtuous house. When it became clear that [[The Military|the Military]] Council would act independently of the Senate, the Highborn were able to successfully argue that the Synod's remit should also cover the generals.
The notable exception to the powers of the Synod are [[The Bourse|the Bourse]] and [[The Conclave|the Conclave]]. Titles appointed by either of these two houses may not be revoked, nor are their decisions subject to [[Veto|veto]]. The exclusion of the [[Bourse]] was the result of a long and bitter battle between Giovanni of [[Tassato]] (later [[Emperor Giovanni]]) and his followers and the Highborn. Giovanni was insistent that the Bourse must be completely free from political interference and would brook no compromise, demanding that the independence of the Bourse be enshrined in the [[Imperial Constitution]].
Giovanni later became Emperor, and was instrumental in courting the Urizeni, convincing them to join the Empire peacefully. The exclusion of the [[Conclave]] from oversight by the Synod likely reflects Giovanni's political views as much as it did the demands of the magicians of the time.
During the [[Spring]] Equinox 383YE the [[Imperial Senate]] voted to change how membership of the Virtue assemblies was determined. This represents one of the most significant changes to [[The Way|the way]] the Synod operates since the reign of [[Empress Varkula]]. The change was proposed initially as a way to allow the priests of the [[Imperial Orcs]] to more fully participate in the [[Imperial Synod]], by moving membership of the Virtue assemblies away from [[Dedication]] and toward the virtues a priest actually preached.
## Sessions
The civil service do not arrange any formal meetings or sessions for the members of the Synod. Rather the Synod acts by passing (or rejecting) judgements that have been raised by members of the Synod. When a [[Judgement|judgement]] is submitted to the civil service it is raised onto the walls of the hub so that it may be scrutinised by any citizen. Eligible members of the Synod may then vote for (or against) the [[Judgement|judgement]] at any point until voting closes. Voting is conducted in public and any citizen may view the records to see how many votes a [[Judgement|judgement]] has gathered and who has supported or opposed it.
At set times during the summit, voting closes to allow the civil service to tally the votes cast for every [[Judgement|judgement]] that is due to end then. A [[Judgement|judgement]] must receive at least four hours of [[Scrutiny|scrutiny]], unless there are sufficient members of the Synod physically present to immediately determine the outcome of the judgement. 
This approach ensures that members of the Synod can have sufficient time to examine a judgement, discussing it with their peers, and considering the ramifications. It also means that all members of the Synod who attend [[Anvil]] can vote on judgements raised, regardless of how many are present.
## Participation
Each citizen who has been responsible for the running of a [[Congregation]] in the season preceding the summit is automatically a [[Member of the Synod|member of the Synod]]. This makes them eligible to raise one Judgement per summit and to vote on judgements raised by other Synod members. Votes are based on the size of the [[Congregation]] - the larger the flock that a priest tends to, the more votes they receive. The founders of the Empire adopted this approach to ensure that the decisions of the Synod best reflected the wishes of the citizens of the Empire.
A handful of Imperial titles also confer votes in the [[Imperial Synod]] - based on the size of the [[Congregation|congregation]] associated with the position. Any citizen who holds such a title is automatically considered to be a [[Member of the Synod|member of the Synod]]. Any votes afforded by the title are in addition to those they are due from their [[Congregation|congregation]] if any.
Participation in the Synod is divided into a number of different assemblies:
* ''[[General]] [[Assembly]]'', consisting of all Synod Priests
* ''National Assemblies'', consisting of all Synod Priests from a single nation. There are ten National Assemblies, and a given priest is automatically a member of one of them.
* ''Virtue Assemblies'', consisting of all Synod priests who share the same [[Dedication|dedication]], or lack of. There are eight Virtue Assemblies (one for each of the seven virtues, and the [[Assembly|assembly]] of [[The Way|the Way]]). A given priest is a member of one [[Virtue assembly|Virtue Assembly]] initially based on their [[Dedication]], but with the option to change it through preaching between summits.
* ''[[Assembly]] of Nine'', consisting of the eight Cardinals of the Virtue Assemblies and [[The Throne|the Throne]].
Every [[Member of the Synod|member of the Synod]] is automatically a member of the [[General Assembly]] - and a member of the relevant national and virtue [[Assembly|assembly]]. Each [[Assembly|assembly]] has specific judgements available to it - for example the Marcher [[National Assembly]] may revoke Marcher senators and generals.
The assembly that [[Will|will]] consider a judgement is set when the judgement is raised - it may then only be voted on by members of that assembly.
## Limitations
Although the Synod is powerful - arguably as powerful as the [[Imperial Senate]] - it does not possess the ability to change [[The Law|the law]], nor to create [[New Imperial titles|new Imperial titles]]. The Synod has the power to [[Veto]] motions passed by the Senate - but it is absolutely reliant on the Senate to raise and pass any motions needed to change laws or even the structure of the Synod itself.
Crucially the powers of the Synod do not extend to cover the Conclave or the Bourse. Both bodies are explicitly defined to be outside the Synod's jurisdiction. This means that the Synod cannot [[Veto|veto]] a [[Declaration]] passed by the Conclave - nor revoke those who hold Bourse or Conclave titles. 
Synod Further Reading
* [[Making your mind up]] - Spring 384YE Wind of Fortune proposing the change to how membership of the Virtue assemblies is determined