---
revision_id: 106371
revision_date: 2023-12-13T13:50:39Z
tags:
  - Religion
draft: false
Title: Inspirational location
aliases:
  - Inspirational_location
---
## Overview
One of the uses for the precious material known as [[Liao#True liao|true liao]] is to create powerful [[Consecration#True Liao|true consecrations]]. These inspirational locations are dedicated to one of the [[The Way|seven virtues]] that fill everyone who visits them with a profound spiritual awareness. The spiritual power of the place, coupled with the stream of pilgrims who come to visit and be inspired by it means that these locations can have far-reaching effects - provided the place has a significant connection to [[The Way|the Way]] and the [[Aura|aura]] has been mandated by the [[Imperial Synod]].
In most cases, the location will be an memorial dedicated to the legacy left by an exemplar or paragon recognised by the [[Imperial Synod]]. In this case, the site must have a significant connection to the exemplar or paragon in question. Usually this will be an actual tomb, but other sites may have a stronger connection to the figure. If the connection to the inspirational figure is strong enough then the life they led, the teachings they left behind, and the lessons they imparted will influence those who visit the location and create effects that resound through the area and beyond.
Some locations can be consecrated as sacred sites without connecting it to an exemplar or paragon, provided the place has profound spiritual importance in some other way. It was possible to consecrate the Marshes of Kallevesa, because they are the ancient resting place of centuries of Wintermark's greatest heroes. In this case, the virtue chosen is usually crucial.
In all cases, it is essential to have an explicit [[Mandate|mandate]] approved by the [[Imperial Synod]]. While it is a simple matter for anyone conversant with the [[Religious skills|ceremony]] of [[Consecration]] to use a dose of true [[Liao|liao]] to create a [[Consecration#True Liao|true aura]] in a chosen spot, there is no stream of visitors to the area without Synod endorsement, so the impact is completely muted. A true [[Liao|liao]] [[Consecration|consecration]] cannot create a significant game effect that produces an [[Inspirational location|inspirational location]] without the express approval of the Synod.
## [[Statement of Principle]]
* Creating an effective [[Inspirational location|inspirational location]] requires a suitably worded [[Statement of Principle|statement of principle]] in the appropriate Virtue [[Assembly|assembly]]
* For a memorial for a specific figure, this must be the virtue they are an exemplar or paragon of
* In any case, this must be the virtue that it is to be used for the true [[Consecration|consecration]]
The first step to creating an effective [[Inspirational location|inspirational location]] is a [[Statement of Principle]] in the appropriate virtue [[Assembly|assembly]]. The [[Judgement|judgement]] must be approved either by the General [[Assembly]] or more usually by the virtue assembly of the virtue that will be used for the [[Consecration|consecration]] (this means that such a statement cannot be raised in the Assembly of [[The Way|the Way]]) . It is not possible to raise a [[Statement of Principle|statement of principle]] in a virtue assembly proposing that an area be consecrated to a different virtue, or in the name of an inspirational figure associated with a different virtue.   
While a statement of principle calling for a place to be consecrated with true [[Liao|liao]] might be raised in a national assembly, the Assembly of [[The Way|the Way]], or in the Assembly of Nine, it will not lead to an opportunity. While many inspirational figures are associated with certain nations, exemplars and paragons are seen as being important to every Imperial citizen. Furthermore, the assumption is that on matters related to the teachings and inspirations of a virtue, it is the virtue assembly whose decision matters most.
It is possible to pass a statement through the General Assembly provided that the appropriate virtue is named in the [[Judgement|judgement]], but it is much more challenging to get a greater majority than with a [[Judgement|judgement]] raised in a virtue assembly.
It is not possible to create a memorial for someone who is known, or widely believed, to still be alive.
## Inspirational Opportunity
* If the statement of principle passes with a greater majority in the correct assembly then it may lead to an opportunity
* A judgement for a memorial is highly likely to create an opportunity
* A judgement for a sacred site will only create an opportunity if the location is especially important
* Creating an inspirational location always requires a [[Mandate|mandate]] and a single dose of true liao
If a valid statement of principle calls for the creation of a memorial, an inspirational location linked to an exemplar or paragon, then it is most likely to create an [[Opportunity]]. This is an exception to the normal rule that statements in the virtue assemblies are unlikely to create opportunities - there will almost always be some kind of response. To be valid, the chosen figure must [[Paragons and exemplars|a paragon or exemplar]] who has been recognised by the [[Imperial Synod]], and they must not have an existing memorial already - otherwise the statement will fail.
If a valid statement calls for the creation of a sacred site, a specific location that is not connected to a paragon or exemplar, then it will only produce an opportunity if the site is already profoundly significant in some way. A small sinecure is not significant enough to be a valid target - the location needs to be a grandiose commission, such as the Walls of Holberg, or a site that has great historical importance, such as the Kallevesa Marshes. Without the additional weight created by the stories of a paragon or exemplar, a site is unlikely to have a notable effect in most cases. The statement has the same chance to lead to an [[Opportunity]] as any other statement of principle. 
The opportunity will take the form of a [[Mandate|mandate]] that could be endorsed by the Imperial Synod. Unlike most mandates, this opportunity will remain available until enacted or until the situation changes significantly. If the mandate is enacted, the named priest will need to provide a dose of true liao. Like any similar opportunity, it is possible for priests of the appropriate virtue assembly to submit an alternative mandate with different wording, but only if they do so in the same season that the opportunity is presented. It is not possible to submit an alternative mandate in subsequent seasons.
These opportunities may arise as the result of plot being run by Profound Decisions. In this case, the statement of principle is not necessary, but there will be no game effects unless a mandate defined in the opportunity is passed. While it is technically possible to consecrate an area with true liao without an opportunity or the appropriate mandate - doing so will not have any game effect.
A single dose of true liao is always required and is always sufficient.  It is not possible to create an inspirational location without using a dose of true liao. Using more than one dose will not have any additional effect.
## Consecration Effects
* An opportunity to create a memorial will include the known locations linked to the inspirational figure that could be chosen
* We will not normally list the explicit effects of a memorial in advance but the location and any other choices in the opportunity will be crucial
* If we provide an opportunity to create a sacred site we will include the precise effects of the consecration
If the original statement of principle calls for a memorial for an exemplar or paragon, then the opportunity will list any known locations that could be used to create a viable memorial for them. For example, the recent consecration of an inspirational tomb for [[Adelmar the Lion]] identified [[Three celebrations and a funeral#Lion of Arnet|three different locales]] that would serve as a memorial to the [[Ambition|ambitious]] exemplar, each offering a different form of inspiration to the faithful. Members of the virtue assembly could submit an alternative mandate for a different location, but this will only have be accepted if the chosen site has a strong connection to the historical figure.
The opportunity may include hints and suggestions but it will rarely provide explicit details of what the exact outcome will be. The consequences will only come to light if the consecration goes ahead. For example when the inspirational tomb for [[Ratibor of Temeschwar|Ratibor]] was consecrated in Temeschwar, it led to [[Don't blame me|a set of options]] the Empire could take up. The outcome may also be more introspective in nature - the [[Guardian of the Maze of Zoria|consecration of the Maze of Zoria]] helped transform the place into a quiet sanctuary for pilgrims of [[Wisdom]] whose effects were mostly felt by the [[Guardian of the Maze of Zoria|Guardian]].
A memorial will always attract pilgrims from across the Empire, and sometimes beyond, who want to learn more. It can also encourage people who already possess little-known or significant information about the individual to come forward. In the past, the construction of a memorial has lead to an interest in relics of a new exemplar's life, to examination of and emulation of their heroic deeds, and to the formation of [[Imperial sodality|sodalities]] dedicated to pursuing their legacy.
In some cases the opportunity might include other costs, or require a [[Commission]] be completed first. A grand structure built of [[White granite]] and [[Weirwood]] that would contain the tomb and serve as a place of worship for the faith is common but not always required. For example, the opportunity to [[Sing your name#The Silent Sentinel|consecrate the Silent Sentinel]] as a memorial to the [[The Sentinel|paragon of Vigilance]] of the same name included an additional opportunity to construct an inspirational shrine to further enhance the effect of the true [[Aura|aura]].
If the original statement calls for a sacred site to be consecrated, then it will not normally create an opportunity unless the chosen site is particularly significant. If that happens, the opportunity will be different - the civil service prognosticators will be able to provide much more explicit guidance, providing detailed information on the exact effects the consecration will have. 
## Known Locations
Many records were lost when [[Emperor Nicovar]] destroyed the great libraries of the Empire. This coupled with the problem that the Empire is a vast land that includes large areas of dangerous wilderness between civilized settlements means that it is certain that the location of some inspirational tombs has been lost over the centuries. Without suitable protection these places may have been destroyed - but in theory some may yet endure. No inspirational location has been known to fail through age, since the power of true liao withstands the ravages of time, so it is possible that one day some or all of these lost tombs might be found and reclaimed.
### Memorials
A memorial is an inspirational location dedicated to a renowned exemplar or paragon.
InspirationVirtueLocationNotes
[[Aldones di Sarvos]][[Ambition]][[Sarvos]]The [[Aldones di Sarvos#Inspirational Memorial|memorial]] is at the top of a tall tower on the northern side of the city, and has no Imperial title associated with it.
[[Atuman]][[Ambition]][[Necropolis]]The [[Atuman#Inspirational Tomb|tomb]] stands on the cliffs, and is rarely visited by any save [[Highguard|Highborn]] pilgrims.
[[Cora Holdfast]][[Loyalty]][[Reikos]]A [[Cora Holdfast#Inspirational Tomb|tomb]] in [[Reikos#High Chalcis|High Chalcis]] overseen by a [[Claviger of the Basilica of Cora Holdfast|Claviger]] appointed by the [[Loyalty]] assembly.
[[Isenbrad]][[Wisdom]][[Hahnmark]]An inspiration tomb was created in the [[Isenbrad#Runegrott and Runesmith.27s Law|Runegrott]] in [[Hahnmark]] and serves as the focal point for [[Wintermark|Wintermark's]] [[Wintermark economic interests#Runesmith.27s Law|Runesmith's Law]]
[[Lepidus]][[Pride]][[Bastion]]The [[Lepidus#The Inspirational Tomb and Basilica of Lepidus|tomb]] stands near the [[Speaker of the Highborn Assembly#Basilica of Seven Doors|Basilica of Seven Doors]] and is a site of pilgrimage for dedicates of [[Pride]].
[[The Little Mother]][[Prosperity]][[Bastion]]The [[The Little Mother#Inspirational Tomb of the Little Mother|first chapel]] of the Little Mother in [[Sarvos]] is an inspirational tomb and site of pilgrimage.
[[Ratibor of Temeschwar|Ratibor]][[Ambition]][[Temeschwar]][[Watcher of Ratibor%27s Torch|Ratibor's Gate]], the old prison, serves as a place of pilgrimage and is overseen by a [[Watcher of Ratibor's Torch|Watcher]]
[[The Sentinel]][[Vigilance]][[Casinea]]Built in the [[Sing your name#The Silent Sentinel|foundations]] beneath the Highborn [[Casinea#The Silent Sentinel|Silent Sentinel]] and overseen by a [[Castellan of the Silent Sentinel|Castellan]]
[[Zemress]][[Prosperity]][[Madruga]]The remains of The Kraken's Bane, Zemress' ship, in [[Madruga#Calvos Sound|Calvos]] serve as a place of pilgrimage for dedicates of [[Prosperity]] from all over the Known World.
[[Zoria]][[Wisdom]][[Miekarova]]An ancient maze in [[Miekarova#Mieriada|Mieriada]], said to have been once the home of the ancient sorceress, is overseen by a [[Varushka|Varushkan]] [[Guardian of the Maze of Zoria|Guardian]]
### Sacred Sites
A sacred site is a location that was already significant in some way that has been consecrated with true liao without dedicating it to an exemplar or paragon.
LocationVirtueDetailsNotes
[[Kallavesa#Kallavesa Marsh|Kallavesa Marsh]][[Pride]][[Kallavesa]]Following [[Coming home#Inspiration|a unique opportunity]] a grove at the heart of the Kallavesa Marshes was consecrated in the name of the heroes who sleep beneath them.
[[Holberg#The City of Holberg|Walls of Holberg]][[Wisdom]][[Holberg]]An opportunity arose to [[Watches from the Wall|consecrate a gallery]] atop the Walls of Holberg that apparently lead to several miraculous events there.
[[Morrow#The Three Watchers|Three Watchers]][[Loyalty]][[Morrow]]When the three great statues commemorating the Highborn defence of Urizen against the Druj were created, the accompanying opportunity allowed a powerful consecration to [[Three soldiers|be created]]
Synod Further Reading