---
IgnoreLinking: False
Title: Urizen military concerns
aliases: ['Urizen_military_concerns']
draft: False
revision_date: 2022-06-27 10:51:41+00:00
revision_id: 92347
tags: ['Urizen']
---

## Overview
The [[Urizen]] contribute only a single army to the Imperial military, but they have a [[History|history]] of critical arcane [[Assistance|assistance]] in wars against [[The Empire|the Empire]]'s magically capable enemies. This history began even before they joined [[The Empire|the Empire]], with several notable [[Urizen]] magicians providing pivotal [[Assistance|assistance]] to the Empire in the [[War|war]] against [[Alderei the Fair]] and the [[Volodny]] sorcerers. This earned them the hatred and enmity of the [[Volodny|volodny]], but it created a precedent for future conflicts. When the [[Imperial armies]] march to [[War|war]] against a foe that uses [[Magic|magic]], the Urizen magicians work to provide what support they can.
Swords, spears and glaives are the favourite weapons; axes, maces and flails are considered to be heavy and ungainly weapons by many. Urizen masters teach their students to see a weapon as a tool to control the space around them; they prefer longer weapons with which they can keep an enemy at a distance. The Urizen disdain wrestling and pugilism. This is partly a result of their desire to keep people outside their personal space, but fighting without a weapon is seen as ineffectual and barbaric — a waste of effort and energy that is the very opposite of the [[Net of the Heavens]] and a higher mind. “''Animals [[Fight|fight]] with their hands''” is a common rebuke for [[Urizen Children|Urizen children]] caught fighting.
## Citadels and [[Fortifications]]
In theory, each Urizen [[Spire|spire]] maintains its own defences, but it is common for [[Spires|spires]] to collaborate to construct a [[Spire|spire]] in such a way that it can protect all its neighbours. These military spires — called citadels — are built at strategically important points and are usually heavily fortified. Citadels are often constructed on Urizen's borders, where they can guard important passes, but there are dangers throughout the mountains of Urizen. Brigands and [[Bands|bands]] of indigenous orcs threaten civilisation and the many powerful regios that afflict the region create problems of their own. The heliopticon allows the transmission of messages between spires without the need to traverse the dangerous valleys and passes that lie between them, enabling citadels to respond quickly to incipient threats.
Citadels attract individuals of a martial bent from all over the nation, and most are led by a [[Sentinel]], a dedicated warrior whose skill has earned them the respect of their peers. Although most Urizen view skill with [[Ritual|ritual]] [[Magic|magic]] as a sign of fitness to govern, ultimately it is excellence they respect. [[Arete]] is about skill, precision and effectiveness with one’s chosen art; a skilled warrior receives more acclaim than a careless [[Mage|mage]]. Sentinels combine study of strategy, tactics, and the mastery of weapons and armour with knowledge of history, magic, religion and philosophy. Most devote their life to the defence of Urizen and are dedicated supporters for any political decision that helps secure the nation's borders.
Securing the nation's borders is no easy task. Urizen only has the capacity to support one army, the [[Citadel Guard]], and that force is in great demand in every conflict the Empire fights due to its unique magical attributes. The preferred solution to this problem is to create a [[Fortification]], a massive stone fortress such as the Court of the White Fountain or the Walls of Cargo. These bastions can help to defend the [[Territory|territory]] where they are constructed and slow the advance of invading troops. Temporary fortifications can be raised with powerful magic, such as [[Frozen Citadel of Cathan Canae]], but they only last a season before the ritual must be renewed. Permanent fortifications built from [[White granite]] are expensive and time-consuming to build, but they are the best way that Urizen can reliably guarantee its own safety given the small size of its population. 
## Imperial Armies
Urizen fields one [[Imperial army]]: the [[Citadel Guard]]. The Urizen also have a great deal of interest in the position of [[Warmage]], appointed by the [[Imperial Conclave]] by [[Declaration|declaration]] of [[Candidacy|candidacy]], to serve as a de facto [[General|general]], albeit one without command of an army.
### Citadel Guard
One of the oldest continuously active armies in the Empire, the Citadel Guard (unsurprisingly) incorporates a large number of magicians, battle-magicians and sentinels trained to [[Fight|fight]] alongside them.  In addition to the skilled and well-equipped [[Combat|combat]] magicians, there are also diviners who use the magic of [[Day]] and [[Night]] to gather intelligence about the magical capabilities of their enemies; scouts and disciplined raiders who focus on denying those resources to the enemy; and potent ritualists who can channel the magic of the Empire to bring down curses and enchantments on the Territory where the army campaigns. The army possesses the unique [[Highest discipline]] quality that allows the [[General|general]] to employ several unique magical techniques over the course of a year.
The first Urizen General leads the Citadel Guard, and is appointed (or re-appointed) at the [[Summer]] solstice each year. There is a long tradition of choosing a respected [[Sentinel|sentinel]] for this position. Although not technically a legal requirement, the sentinels regard command of the army as crucial to the defence of Urizen, and most strive to ensure one of their own is chosen.
## Supply
Urizen is neither a populous nation, nor one that is especially martial in nature. In recent years, following the [[Druj]] invasion of [[Zenith]], Urizen has struggled to support the Citadel Guard, especially when the orcs of [[The Mallum]] pushed into [[Morrow]]. As of the start of the [[Spring]] Equinox 383YE, the army is stable once again, but any significant loss of prosperous land is likely to renew the risk of the army disbanding.
## Additional Information
* Sentinel
* Citadel Guard
Urizen Links